



# [ACL Administration for Community Living](acl.gov): ~11 pages censored since 1/20/25

## https://acl.gov/news-and-events/acl-blog?page=13


ACL Administration for Community Living [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://acl.gov/news-and-events/acl-blog?page=13)

> Home - ACL Blog - July 16, 2021 | By: Vicki Gottlich, Esq., Director, Center for Policy and Evaluation On July 13, an interim final rule with comment period (IFC) was published in the Federal Register that implements requirements set forth in the No Surprises Act to establish protections against surprise billing and excessive cost-sharing in health care. Surprise billing can occur when someone… June 30, 2021 | A guest blog by Paula Basta, M.Div., Director, Illinois Department on Aging Aging can be a challenge for any community. But the lives of LGBTQ+ older adults bring distinct challenges. It is estimated that 4.3% of the adult population of Illinois identify as LGBTQ+. The Illinois Department on Aging’s (IDoA) mission is to provide high-quality, person-centered care to all… June 28, 2021 | Rohmteen Mokhtari, ACL Public Affairs Pride month is a time of celebration for the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ+) community - including the many LGBTQ+ people with disabilities. It also is a time to honor the impact and sacrifice of early advocates for LGBTQ+ rights, and those who continue the fight today… June 22, 2021 | Alison Barkoff, Acting Administrator and Assistant Secretary for Aging On June 22, 1999, the U.S. Supreme Court issued its ruling in Olmstead v L.C., making clear that people with disabilities have a civil right under the Americans with Disabilities Act to live and fully participate in their communities. In the opinion explaining that decision, the Supreme Court… June 21, 2021 | By Kristi Hill, Deputy Director, ACL's National Institute on Disability, Independent Living, and Rehabilitation Research As the National Institute on Disability, Independent Living and Rehabilitation Research works through the busiest time of our grants year, we have gotten a lot of questions from across the research community about how we are implementing the Executive Order On Advancing Racial Equity and Support… June 16, 2021 | By Brian Altman, J.D., Deputy Director for the Administration on Aging President Biden’s LGBTQ Pride Month Proclamation noted “many LGBTQ+ seniors, who faced discrimination and oppression throughout their lives, are isolated and need support and elder care.” At ACL, we are committed to ensuring that LGBTQ+ older adults receive the services and supports they need and… How Alaska’s Adult Protective Services and Long-Term Care Ombudsman Programs Responded to the COVID-19 Pandemic June 14, 2021 | Deputy Assistant Secretary for Aging Edwin Walker (top left), Alaska Adult Protective Services (APS) Program Manager Sandra Jenkins (top right), and Alaska Long-Term Care Ombudsman Stephanie Wheeler (bottom center). Tomorrow, communities around the world will take a stand for the rights and… May 27, 2021 | Alison Barkoff, Acting Administrator and Assistant Secretary for Aging Each year during Older Americans Month, we celebrate the vital contributions of the older adults whose knowledge, expertise, and talents make our communities stronger. We also celebrate the aging services network that works in every community across the country to empower older people to live… May 19, 2021 | Edwin Walker, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Aging, ACL, and Atalaya Sergi, Director, AmeriCorps Seniors COVID-19 has changed so much of how we live, work, and connect with each other. We have had to adjust in unprecedented ways to protect ourselves and those around us. The pandemic has had a tremendous impact on older adults, who found themselves distanced from family, friends, services, and other… May 13, 2021 | Alison Barkoff, Acting Administrator and Assistant Secretary for Aging COVID-19 has taken its toll on older adults and people with disabilities in many ways. In addition to increased risk of serious illness and death from COVID-19, many also faced the serious threat of being forced to move from their homes into institutions -- or were unable to return to the community…
## https://acl.gov/news-and-events/acl-blog/2021?page=2


ACL Administration for Community Living [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://acl.gov/news-and-events/acl-blog/2021?page=2)

> ASPE/BHDAP Announces $1.5 Million Investment in ID/DD Data Infrastructure August 2, 2021 | Tisamarie Sherry, MD, PhD, Deputy Assistant Secretary; & Emma Plourde, BS, Public Health Analyst; Office of Behavioral Health, Disability, and Aging Policy; Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation, HHS ACL Policy Update: What the Changes in the “Public Charge” Immigration Rule Mean for the Aging and Disability Networks July 30, 2021 | Vicki Gottlich, Director - Center for Policy and Evaluation Ensuring equal access to COVID-19 vaccination: How CILs are partnering to remove some of the barriers for people with disabilities in rural areas July 30, 2021 | Mary Willard, Director of Training and Technical Assistance for the Association of Programs for Rural Independent Living (APRIL) Equal access to health care is one of the rights guaranteed by the Americans with Disabilities Act. Courtney Felle, an intern in ACL’s Center for Policy and Evaluation, shares a personal reflection on the 31st anniversary of the Americans with Disabil "I am a brown, disabled, adopted scholar-activist": NIDILRR Director Dr. Anjali Forber-Pratt reflects on the impact of the ADA July 21, 2021 | Dr. Anjali J. Forber-Pratt, Director, National Institute on Disability, Independent Living, and Rehabilitation Research I am a brown, disabled, adopted woman who acquired transverse myelitis as an infant, and I use a manual wheelchair. My experiences growing up with these identities shaped those I developed later—who I am as a person, researcher, and activist. July 16, 2021 | By: Vicki Gottlich, Esq., Director, Center for Policy and Evaluation On July 13, an interim final rule with comment period (IFC) was published in the Federal Register that implements requirements set forth in the No Surprises Act to establish protections against surprise billing and excessive June 30, 2021 | A guest blog by Paula Basta, M.Div., Director, Illinois Department on Aging Aging can be a challenge for any community. But the lives of LGBTQ+ older adults bring distinct challenges. It is estimated that 4.3% of the adult population of Illinois identify as LGBTQ+. The Illinois Department on Aging’s (IDoA) mission is to June 28, 2021 | Rohmteen Mokhtari, ACL Public Affairs Pride month is a time of celebration for the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ+) community - including the many LGBTQ+ people with disabilities. It also is a time to honor the impact and sacrifice of early advocates for LGBTQ+ rights, and those who continue the fight today. June 22, 2021 | Alison Barkoff, Acting Administrator and Assistant Secretary for Aging On June 22, 1999, the U.S. Supreme Court issued its ruling in Olmstead v L.C., making clear that people with disabilities have a civil right under the Americans with Disabilities Act to live and fully participate in their communities. June 21, 2021 | By Kristi Hill, Deputy Director, ACL's National Institute on Disability, Independent Living, and Rehabilitation Research
## https://acl.gov/news-and-events/acl-blog/acl-proud-serve-and-support-lgbtq-older-adults


ACL: Proud to Serve and Support LGBTQ+ Older Adults [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://acl.gov/news-and-events/acl-blog/acl-proud-serve-and-support-lgbtq-older-adults)

> President Biden’s LGBTQ Pride Month Proclamation noted “many LGBTQ+ seniors, who faced discrimination and oppression throughout their lives, are isolated and need support and elder care.” At ACL, we are committed to ensuring that LGBTQ+ older adults receive the services and supports they need and deserve. ACL has a long history of working on behalf of LGBTQ+ older Americans. For more than fifteen years, ACL has stated that “isolation due to sexual orientation or gender identity may restrict a person’s ability to perform normal daily tasks or live independently” and therefore LGBTQ+ older adults should be targeted for services and supports because they meet the Older Americans Act definition of “greatest social need.” - Since 2010, ACL has supported the National Resource Center on LGBT Aging to provide technical assistance aimed at improving the quality of services and supports offered to LGBTQ+ older adults. - Over the years, ACL has funded grants and produced informational materials specific to older adults living with HIV/AIDS. - However, ACL and the aging network can and must do more. ACL is taking the following steps to ensure LGBTQ+ older adults are heard, understood, and treated equitably. With passage of the Supporting Older Americans Act of 2020 (P.L. 116-131), ACL will be releasing new guidance for states to use in developing their state plans. This guidance will emphasize and build upon ACL’s long-standing inclusion of LGBTQ+ older adults as a population in greatest social need by requiring states and area agencies on aging to describe in their plans how they will conduct outreach and education to LGBTQ+ older adults. - ACL is also committed to implementing the Administration’s Executive Order on Preventing and Combating Discrimination on the Basis of Gender Identity or Sexual Orientation. ACL is working with other U.S. Department of Health and Human Services components to ensure the agency’s grants prohibit sex discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. - ACL is taking steps to increase data and research on the unique needs of, and approaches to serving, members of the LGBTQ+ community. For example ACL is engaged with the Measuring Sex, Gender Identity, and Sexual Orientation for the National Institutes of Health ad hoc panel of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine and looks forward to the report providing direction on how best to incorporate sexual orientation and gender identity questions into the National Survey of Older Americans Act Participants. - Individuals age 50 and older now make up almost half of Ryan White HIV/AIDS Program clients. Thus, ACL and the Health Resources and Services Administration are planning joint programming to better connect our networks and make local connections between Ryan White Program providers and area agencies on aging. - As we celebrate Pride Month during June, ACL hopes you will join us in looking for ways we can improve support for LGBTQ+ older adults. Take time to celebrate and engage LGBTQ+ older adults in your community. Listen and learn from them about the discrimination they’ve faced and how they have persevered. Invite them to work with you to explore ways we can improve our outreach and ensure that they feel welcome in our programs. With a shared commitment and a focused effort on equity and inclusion of all older adults, we can ensure that we are providing the services and supports they need.
## https://acl.gov/news-and-events/acl-blog/celebrating-and-supporting-lgbtq-people-intellectual-and-developmental


Celebrating and Supporting LGBTQ+ People with Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://acl.gov/news-and-events/acl-blog/celebrating-and-supporting-lgbtq-people-intellectual-and-developmental)

> Pride month is a time of celebration for the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ+) community - including the many LGBTQ+ people with disabilities. It also is a time to honor the impact and sacrifice of early advocates for LGBTQ+ rights, and those who continue the fight today. Finally, it is an opportunity to recognize the challenges to equity and inclusion that are still faced by many in the LGBTQ+ community, which can be even greater for LGBTQ+ people of color and LBGTQ+ people with disabilities. These barriers can be particularly pervasive for LGBTQ+ people with intellectual and developmental disabilities, who often feel out of place in both the LGBTQ+ and disability communities. ACL is committed to ensuring our programs and research reflect the true diversity of our country and are responsive to the needs of all we serve, and several ACL initiatives are specifically working to learn more about, and to address, the unique needs of LGBTQ+ individuals with disabilities, particularly IDD. For example: Our National Institute on Disability, Independent Living, and Rehabilitation Research (NIDILRR) funds a variety of projects, including one working with LGBTQ+ autistic adults to identify barriers to community participation and supports to address these barriers. - ACL-funded State Councils on Developmental Disabilities in Washington, D.C., Michigan and New York are supporting projects that work directly with LGBTQ+ people with IDD. - Also funded by ACL, University Centers for Excellence in Developmental Disabilities (UCEDDs) around the country are working to ensure people with IDD have access to appropriate and inclusive sexual health information. For example, Oregon's UCEDD has even developed a resource hub with videos, training tools, and more. - We are proud of these programs and their pioneering work to improve the lives of LGBTQ+ people with disabilities, and we are looking forward to sharing the knowledge and lessons learned so they can be adopted by other programs and communities. As part of our Pride Month celebrations, we talked with several people with lived and professional experiences about the challenges faced by LGBTQ+ disabled people, misconceptions about people with IDD and sexual health, future directions of research, the importance of pride and community, and more. We spoke with: Jean P. Hall, PhD, the Director of the Institute for Health and Disability Policy Studies and the Research and Training Center on Independent Living at the University of Kansas. She has conducted research, funded by NIDILRR, on health outcomes of LGBTQ+ people with disabilities. - Alex Jusko, a self-advocate with cerebral palsy who serves as a life coach, as well as a Marketing and Community Outreach Associate for People Inc. in Buffalo, New York. In 2013, he helped found PrideAbility, an advocacy group for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, intersex, and asexual (LGBTQIA) people with IDD. - Pauline Bosma, a staff member with Massachusetts Advocates Standing Strong and the founder and coordinator of the Rainbow Support Groups, a network of support groups for self-advocates who are members of both the IDD and LGBTQ+ communities. Pauline describes herself as a transgender woman who is labeled with an intellectual disability. - The Q&A below captures highlights of what they shared with us. What led you to get involved in your advocacy work? What has it meant to you to connect with other LGBTQ+ people with disabilities? Bosma: I started the Rainbow Support Groups in Massachusetts for LGBTQ+ people with IDD and we have groups across the state with hundreds of members. Through Rainbow I have met LGBTQ+ people with disabilities from all over the country and the world. It feels good to help people find support. Jusko: The PrideAbility movement has allowed me to connect with all sorts of people with disabilities across New York State. Before that, I hadn't met many people within the LGBTQIA+ community who were also people with disabilities. Back then, I didn't understand other people with disabilities very well and was rather close-minded. I was arrogant and rather full of myself. Being a part of PrideAbility gave me the ability to bring my ego down a few notches and connect with a community that I really hadn't before. It helped me accept myself over the course of years as well as help me accept my disability (Cerebral Palsy) on a deeper level. It also helped me appreciate the strength and understanding of the IDD community. We are just like any other community in that we are all different and unique but similar enough to have a common understanding and appreciation for the skills, talents, and struggles we all possess and face. In the face of adversity, the IDD community rises together and supports each other the best way we can. What drew you to research the experiences of LGBTQ+ people with disabilities? Hall: As my colleagues and I looked at data from our National Survey on Health and Disability, we began to notice that LGBTQ+ respondents had worse access to health care and poorer health outcomes compared to straight, cisgender respondents with disabilities. We wanted to better understand and explore this finding, so we conducted interviews with a sub-sample of LGBTQ+ respondents. Honestly, we felt a strong need to share the stories we heard and are doing so via existing and upcoming articles. The second reason I was drawn to this research is my broader interest in social justice. We are finding that this intersectional group faces more challenges than LGBTQ+ people or people with disabilities alone, and want to make sure that their needs and voices are heard. What are some of the unique barriers that LGBTQ+ people with disabilities face? Jusko: I want to acknowledge that I do not speak for all people with disabilities. Like all people, we all have our unique challenges, skills, opinions, and talents. There is a lack of compassion and knowledge within the LGBTQIA+ community about people with disabilities. People think we can’t have sex or don’t want to have sex or that people with disabilities are not sexual at all. This is not the case at all. We are human and we have emotional, mental, physical, and/or spiritual needs like any other person. We want to make friends, have lovers, be in relationships, etc. Also, depending on circumstances, a person with a disability may lack the staff, funding, or ability to physically get in and out of LGBTQIA+ venues. For example, many of the gay bars here are not very accessible physically speaking. Stairs, slippery floors, and small and inaccessible bathrooms for those in wheelchairs are some of the most common physical barriers. Bosma: I think the biggest barriers are not knowing about other LGBTQ+ people and not having sexual education. Also, many don’t have support and their families or care staff might not let them express their gender or their sexuality. They also might not have any privacy to explore their sexuality. Many LGBTQ+ people with IDD don’t know other people with IDD. That’s why I started the Rainbow Support Groups, so LGBTQ+ people with IDD can support each other and have a safe place to go where they feel comfortable. Hall: My team’s research focuses on the areas of access to health care and employment for people with disabilities. Our findings indicate that LGBTQ+ people with disabilities encounter discriminatory attitudes and practices related to both their sexual/gender minority (SGM) status and to their disabilities. As a result, LGBTQ+ people with disabilities report less access to health care, with poorer mental and physical health outcomes. They also report lower earnings than their non-SGM peers with disabilities. What are some misconceptions about people with disabilities and sexual health? What are the consequences of these misconceptions? Bosma: People think that people with IDD don’t need to learn about sex or sexual health. Then people with IDD don’t have information and they might get STDs, get someone pregnant, or get in trouble with the law. Hall: A survey we conducted in Kansas some time ago indicated that, among youth with disabilities (ages 18-24), fully half had never received information on birth control, sexually-transmitted diseases, or pregnancy from their physicians, but 77% planned to marry and 70% planned to have children. One person with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) we interviewed more recently reported still seeing a pediatrician despite being in their mid-20s, because adult providers were uncomfortable seeing a person with ASD. Thus, this person had never received age-appropriate sexual healthcare. Similarly, another interview participant who was gay and had autism reported that his doctors would not support him in obtaining the HPV vaccine or PrEP medication for HIV prevention, putting his health at serious risk. Jusko: All these misconceptions result in people with disabilities feeling alienated from the LGBTQIA+ community and less confident when it comes to relationships and friends. Also, it’s been my experience that able-bodied men feel that they shouldn’t bother approaching me because there isn’t a point for them under the above assumptions. What advice or resources would you share with someone who is uncomfortable discussing sexual health with a family member with IDD? Bosma: If you don’t know much about sexual health, you can ask other people for help. If you don’t have an answer to a question, there is always someone who can help you. Jusko: The best way to stop being uncomfortable is to address the uncomfortable topic and understand not only why the person with the disability wants to know more about sexual health, but to also help that family member or friend understand why they are uncomfortable about sexual health. (Editor’s note: The Oregon UCEDD’s sexual health resource hub includes a directory of resource guides to help parents, educators, and direct service professionals support the sexual health of young people with intellectual and developmental disabilities.) How can families, educators, support professionals, and medical providers better support LGBTQ+ people with IDD? Bosma: To support LGBTQ+ people with IDD, you should listen to them and not be judgmental. You should let them explore their gender and sexuality, with your guidance, so they can figure out who they are. Jusko: Listen. Learn. Be open-minded. Don’t be afraid to face your uncomfortable feelings in regard to the LGBTQIA+ community and/or people with disabilities. Let your lack of knowledge and understanding motivate you to find answers from reliable sources. More and more people with disabilities who are part of the LGBTQIA+ community have come out of the woodwork. Please talk to them but understand that one voice does not speak for all. Hall: In our research, LGBTQ+ people with disabilities report problems related both to their sexual or gender minority status and to their disabilities in accessing medical care. One example is that many medical providers seem to view people with disabilities as non-sexual, and thus do not address reproductive health care in appointments. Additionally, people with autism spectrum disorder told us that doctors have suggested that, as people with ASD, they cannot possibly understand their sexuality or gender and therefore cannot really be LGBTQ+. Therefore, family members and others can support LGBTQ+ people with disabilities by validating their SGM status and medical providers can learn that people with disabilities represent the same range of sexuality and genders as all of their other patients. June is LGBTQ+ pride month, what does pride mean to you? Bosma: To me, pride means supporting my LGBTQ+ colleagues in the community and remembering the LGBTQ+ people from the past who helped make changes and have passed on. Jusko: Pride is a celebration of the progress achieved on LGBTQIA+ rights and of gratitude for all the support that has allowed us to get where we are now. It is also a celebration of love in all forms. Pride is a reminder humanity can be beautiful if we just accept ourselves and others without judgement. Life can be complicated. Why break each other down, judge, or hurt each other and/or ourselves? Where do you think research on the experiences of LGBTQ+ people with disabilities is headed? Hall: I would hope that research continues to explore the additional barriers to full participation for this group and also to document instances where services, supports, or policies have made a positive difference. The pandemic has resulted in historic expansions of telehealth and telework opportunities, which have often addressed disparities in access to healthcare and employment for people with disabilities. It seems important to conduct research to see if these options are helpful to LGBTQ+ people with disabilities and, if so, to find ways to continue their availability. How do you hope that the experiences of growing up as an LGBTQ+ person with IDD will be different 20 years from now? Jusko: I hope that there won’t be a focus on LGBTQIA+ issues or people with disabilities. We will all just be accepted and understood as people, without regard to labels. If you're proud of your label, be proud without fear. I hope that our community will be accessible to all and there will be less stigma and more love and understanding between our two communities. Bosma: I’m hoping there is a lot more respect for people with intellectual disabilities, including people who are LGBTQ+, so they are treated like they belong on this Earth. Rohmteen Mokhtari is a public affairs officer in ACL’s Office of External Affairs. He identifies as a gay man with low vision and ADHD.
## https://acl.gov/news-and-events/announcements/emory-university-researchers-seek-lgbtq-caregivers


Emory University Researchers Seek LGBTQ Caregivers [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://acl.gov/news-and-events/announcements/emory-university-researchers-seek-lgbtq-caregivers)

> Researchers at Emory University Goizueta Alzheimer's Disease Research Center are gathering data on diverse LGBTQ caregivers in order to discover the unique obstacles they face in their role. The goal of this project is to learn more about what resources make this role easier, as well as to develop a caregiver training program to address the challenges faced by LGBTQ informal caregivers of people living with dementia. Researchers are looking for participants who are: Lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender - 18 or older - Consider themselves a primary caregiver for another adult person - Participants do not have to live with the person they care for or care for them full-time, and they may also be eligible if they were an informal caregiver in the past. Those who are eligible to participate will be asked to complete a 60-minute questionnaire about their medical history, sleep patterns, mood, diet and exercise, stress, and caregiver experiences. If the person they are caring for is a person living with dementia, we would also like to ask them to participate in the clinical trial portion of our study. The clinical trial involves watching four instructional videos that teach a caregiver mastery course, followed by discussion questionnaires and a focus group. Eligible participants can learn more online or call 404-712-2654.
## https://acl.gov/news-and-events/announcements/national-paralysis-resource-center-webinar-coming-home-and-coming-out


National Paralysis Resource Center Webinar: Coming Home and Coming Out for the Holidays [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://acl.gov/news-and-events/announcements/national-paralysis-resource-center-webinar-coming-home-and-coming-out)

> Tuesday, December 14 at 2:00 pm ET Register for the webinar. The National Paralysis Resource Center (operated by the Christopher and Dana Reeve Foundation) is hosting a webinar that will discuss ideas on how to navigate coming home for the holidays for the LGBTQ+ disability community. Panelists from the Human Rights Campaign Foundation and SAGE, an advocacy organization offering services for LGBTQ+ elders, will join this conversation. The panelists will provide a diverse and insightful conversation focusing on topics important to the LGBTQ+ disability community like finances and housing security when coming out, bringing home a partner for the first time, and defusing antagonizing family members. These are just some of the very important and real obstacles that will be addressed during this webinar. To protect everyone's privacy, all attendees will remain anonymous. ACL funds the Paralysis Resource Center to provide comprehensive information for people living with spinal cord injury, paralysis, and mobility-related disabilities and their support networks. Resources include information and referral by phone and email in multiple languages, including Spanish; a peer and family support mentoring program; a military and veterans program; multicultural outreach services; quality of life grants; and a national website.
## https://acl.gov/news-and-events/announcements/sage-state-lgbtq-aging-survey


SAGE State of LGBTQ+ Aging Survey [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://acl.gov/news-and-events/announcements/sage-state-lgbtq-aging-survey)

> Learn more and take the survey SAGE’s Center of Excellence has partnered with the University of Nevada, Las Vegas to conduct the “State of LGBTQ+ Aging Survey.” The survey seeks to better understand the current experiences, needs, and resiliencies of older people in the U.S. who identify as LGBTQ+ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, intersex, asexual, Two-Spirit, or related identities). The survey is now open to LGBTQ+ adults 50 years old and older. It takes 30 to 45 minutes and can be conducted online or over the phone. You can help spread the word about the survey with this flyer (also available in Spanish).
## https://acl.gov/news-and-events/announcements/sage-webinar-planning-lifelong-care-transgender-non-binary-people


SAGE Webinar on Planning for Lifelong Care for Transgender Non-Binary People [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://acl.gov/news-and-events/announcements/sage-webinar-planning-lifelong-care-transgender-non-binary-people)

> Wednesday, November 29, 2023 | 2:30 PM ET Register for the webinar Join SAGE, one of the ACL-funded national Minority Aging Technical Assistance and Resource Centers, for their webinar, “Planning for Lifelong Care for Transgender & Non-binary People.” Many transgender people have not completed advance directives, but these documents may help lessen fears about dementia, loss of decision-making capacity, and discrimination in long-term care. Additionally, emerging research shows that transgender people of color may be at heightened risk for dementia. During this webinar, you will learn about a new decision-making tool with guiding questions that any gender-diverse person can use to identify their values and goals concerning dementia, gender identity, and gender expression, which can then be used in an advance directive. Closed captioning will be available. Contact Swayland@sageusa.org with any questions. Funded by ACL, the National Resource Center on LGBTQ+ Aging is focused on improving the quality of services and supports offered to older adults, their families, and caregivers by providing training, technical assistance, and educational resources to aging providers, LGBTQ+ organizations, and LGBTQ+ older adults.
## https://acl.gov/news-and-events/announcements/sage-webinar-planning-action-highlights-lgbtq-inclusive-area-agencies


SAGE Webinar: From Planning to Action: Highlights from LGBTQ+ Inclusive Area Agencies on Aging [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://acl.gov/news-and-events/announcements/sage-webinar-planning-action-highlights-lgbtq-inclusive-area-agencies)

> SAGE Webinar on LGBTQ+ Inclusive Area Agencies on Aging (AAA) January 17, 2023 | 3-4:15 PM ET Join the SAGE National Resource Center on LGBTQ+ Aging, one of the ACL-funded national Minority Aging Technical Assistance and Resource Centers, for their webinar, "Planning to Action: Highlights from LGBTQ+ Inclusive Area Agencies on Aging." Participants will hear a discussion panel and Q&A on LGBTQ+ aging, successful planning strategies, and actions AAAs can take to create welcoming and inclusive aging services. The webinar will feature speakers from ACL, AgeOptions, Aging Ahead, Centralina AAA, Pikes Peak Area Council of Governments, and SAGE. Live captioning will be provided. Requests for reasonable accommodations should be made at least 72 hours in advance of the webinar by sending an email to swayland@sageusa.org. Additionally, contact swayland@sageusa.org with any questions. Funded by ACL, the National Resource Center on LGBTQ+ Aging is focused on improving the quality of services and supports offered to older adults, their families, and caregivers by providing training, technical assistance, and educational resources to aging providers, LGBTQ+ organizations, and LGBTQ+ older adults.
## https://acl.gov/news-and-events/announcements/webinar-lgbtq-inclusive-planning-state-units-aging


Webinar on LGBTQ+ Inclusive Planning for State Units on Aging [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://acl.gov/news-and-events/announcements/webinar-lgbtq-inclusive-planning-state-units-aging)

> Tuesday, April 4, 2023 | 3:00-4:15 PM ET Register for the webinar. Join the SAGE National Resource Center on LGBTQ+ Aging, one of the ACL-funded national Minority Aging Technical Assistance and Resource Centers, for their webinar, “Coast to Coast and Everything In-between: LGBTQ+ Inclusive State Planning.” The SAGE National Resource Center on LGBTQ+ Aging has long worked with state units on aging and disability organizations to support the inclusion of older LGBTQ+ people in data collection, outreach, and services. These efforts were strengthened by the inclusion of LGBTQ+ communities in the 2020 reauthorization of the Older Americans Act (OAA) and subsequent State Plan guidance from ACL. This webinar will provide lessons learned from coast to coast. It will also include a discussion panel and Q&A on LGBTQ+ aging, successful planning strategies, and actions state units on aging can take to create welcoming and inclusive aging services for LGBTQ+ elders as outlined in the OAA. This webinar will feature speakers from ACL, ADvancing States, the Illinois Department on Aging, and the Maine Department of Health and Human Services. Live captioning will be provided. Requests for reasonable accommodations for the webinar should be made at least 72 hours in advance of the webinar, by sending an email to swayland@sageusa.org. "Equity in the Aging Network" Webinar Recording and Resources Now Available The recorded video, presentation slides, and featured resources for last month’s Older Adults’ Equity Collaborative (OAEC) webinar “Equity in the Aging Network: Looking 3 Years Back and 30 Years Forward” are now available. This webinar, hosted by the the New York Academy of Medicine, the OAEC Coordinating Center, on February 16, provided an overview of the last three years of equity work completed by the OAEC, and introduced attendees to both the OAEC Resource Library and the newly developed OAEC Equity Checklist. Attendees also discussed untapped areas of potential for the future of equity in research, policy, and practice. Contact mrubano@nyam.org with any questions. For more information on the OAEC member organizations, visit their homepages: National Indian Council on Aging (NICOA) - National Asian Pacific Center on Aging (NAPCA) - National Caucus and Center on Black Aging (NCBA) - MHP Salud - SAGE National Resource Center on LGBTQ+ Aging - Follow OAEC updates on Twitter at @AgeFriendlyNYC. The OAEC includes five ACL-funded national Minority Aging Technical Assistance and Resource Centers (TARCs) that each focus on serving a unique community. Together, they work to ensure access and equity across aging services programs by providing technical assistance to the aging services network.
## https://acl.gov/news-and-events/announcements/webinar-supporting-lgbtq-inclusive-aging-networks


Webinar on Supporting LGBTQ+ Inclusive Aging Networks [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://acl.gov/news-and-events/announcements/webinar-supporting-lgbtq-inclusive-aging-networks)

> Tuesday, June 18, 2024 | 2:00-3:15 PM ET Register for the webinar Join the ACL-funded National Resource Center on LGBTQ+ Aging (a project of SAGE) and AgeOptions Thrive with Pride for an “office hours” webinar celebrating LGBTQ+ Pride Month. The webinar will feature a discussion on LGBTQ+ inclusive programs and outreach and is intended for area agencies on aging, aging and disability resource centers, centers for independent living, ombudsman programs, Senior Medicare Patrol programs, State Health Insurance Assistance Programs, Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act (MIPPA) programs, and community centers serving older adults. The webinar will feature automated Zoom captioning. For more information or additional accessibility requests, please contact Sherrill Wayland (she/her/they) at swayland@sageusa.org. SAGE has compiled additional resource on their LGBTQ+ Pride Month page.