



# [anl.gov](anl.gov): ~5 pages censored since 1/20/25

## https://blogs.anl.gov/spectrum/category/uncategorized/


Category Archives: Uncategorized [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://blogs.anl.gov/spectrum/category/uncategorized/)

> Recent Posts Spectrum Celebrates Pride – What does Pride mean to you? - Transgender Day of Visibility - Argonne and Spectrum Remember Lives Lost in the LGBTQI+ Community during Transgender day of Remembrance - Argonne and Spectrum Observe Transgender Day of Visibility (TDoV) - Spectrum Monthly Meeting, Thursday March 12 2020 - - Tag Cloud Meta Category Archives: Uncategorized Spectrum Monthly Meeting, Thursday March 12 2020 Please join us for the March Spectrum meeting Thursday, March 12th! Location: Building 241 room C201 Time: Noon to 1pm Spectrum meetings are open to all involved in the work of the laboratory. We are an inclusive community made … Read More Posted in Uncategorized Comments Off on Spectrum Monthly Meeting, Thursday March 12 2020 Spectrum Monthly Meeting, Thursday June 13 Please join us for the June Spectrum meeting tomorrow, June 13! Location: Building 241 room C201 Time: Noon to 1pm Spectrum meetings are open to all involved in the work of the laboratory. We are an inclusive community made up … Read More Posted in Uncategorized Comments Off on Spectrum Monthly Meeting, Thursday June 13 Asexuality Awareness In recognition of Asexuality Awareness Week, members of Spectrum have developed this overview article to help explain and define what asexuality means and how it fits into the broader concepts of gender identity and sexual orientation. What Is Asexuality? Merriam-Webster … Read More Posted in Uncategorized Comments Off on Asexuality Awareness Spectrum Meeting: Thursday, August 9, 2018 Please join us for Spectrum’s monthly meeting! Date: Thursday, August 9, 2018 Time: Noon – 1PM Location: Private Dining Area (Conference Room A), Argonne Guest House (building 460) All Argonne, DOE and UChicago employees are welcome to participate. We are … Read More Posted in Uncategorized Comments Off on Spectrum Meeting: Thursday, August 9, 2018 LGBTQ Inclusivity Workshop and SafeZone Discussion Spectrum will be hosting two events regarding SafeZones, engagement, and LGBTQ inclusivity and dialog. These events will focus on helping people become effective educators and to engage in conversation. The lunch-and-learn will focus on exposing and socializing the idea of SafeZones, … Read More Posted in Uncategorized Tagged LGBTQ Inclusivity, SafeZone Comments Off on LGBTQ Inclusivity Workshop and SafeZone Discussion Spectrum Meeting: Thursday, October 12th Join us for Spectrum’s Monthly Meeting Date: Thursday, October 12th 2017 Time: noon – 1 p.m. Location: Private Dining Area (Conference Room A), Argonne Guest House (building 460) All Argonne, DOE and UChicago employees are welcome to participate. We are … Read More Posted in Uncategorized Comments Off on Spectrum Meeting: Thursday, October 12th Spectrum Meeting: Thursday, August 10 Join us for Spectrum’s Monthly Meeting Date: Thursday, August 10 2017 Time: noon – 1 p.m. Location: Private Dining Area (Conference Room A), Argonne Guest House (building 460) Our first meeting in the new location. All Argonne, DOE and UChicago … Read More Posted in Uncategorized Comments Off on Spectrum Meeting: Thursday, August 10 October is LGBT History Month During LGBT History Month, Equality Forum will be featuring a series of LGBT icons. Equality Forum’s mission is to advance national and international lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) civil rights through education. Here at Argonne, you can join our … Read More Posted in Uncategorized Comments Off on October is LGBT History Month About Us Spectrum is an employee resource group (ERG) dedicated to building awareness and providing resources for those in the laboratory community who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, asexual, agender, or allies to their LGBTQIA+ peers. Spectrum also … Read More Posted in Uncategorized Comments Off on About Us
## https://blogs.anl.gov/spectrum/category/resources/


Category Archives: resources [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://blogs.anl.gov/spectrum/category/resources/)

> Recent Posts Spectrum Celebrates Pride – What does Pride mean to you? - Transgender Day of Visibility - Argonne and Spectrum Remember Lives Lost in the LGBTQI+ Community during Transgender day of Remembrance - Argonne and Spectrum Observe Transgender Day of Visibility (TDoV) - Spectrum Monthly Meeting, Thursday March 12 2020 - - Tag Cloud Meta Category Archives: resources LGBTQ+ Friendly Mental Health Support If you’re in crisis and need immediate help, call 911. Illinois Masonic Hospital in Boystown runs a 24-hour crisis line at (773)296-5380. If you are not in crisis but need someone to talk to,┬áthe GLBT National Help Center runs a … Read More Tagged resources Comments Off on LGBTQ+ Friendly Mental Health Support
## https://blogs.anl.gov/spectrum/tag/lgbtq-inclusivity/


Tag Archives: LGBTQ Inclusivity [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://blogs.anl.gov/spectrum/tag/lgbtq-inclusivity/)

> Recent Posts Spectrum Celebrates Pride – What does Pride mean to you? - Transgender Day of Visibility - Argonne and Spectrum Remember Lives Lost in the LGBTQI+ Community during Transgender day of Remembrance - Argonne and Spectrum Observe Transgender Day of Visibility (TDoV) - Spectrum Monthly Meeting, Thursday March 12 2020 - - Tag Cloud Meta Tag Archives: LGBTQ Inclusivity LGBTQ Inclusivity Workshop and SafeZone Discussion Spectrum will be hosting two events regarding SafeZones, engagement, and LGBTQ inclusivity and dialog. These events¬†will focus on helping people become effective educators and to engage in conversation. The lunch-and-learn will focus on exposing and socializing the idea of SafeZones, … Read More Posted in Uncategorized Tagged LGBTQ Inclusivity, SafeZone Comments Off on LGBTQ Inclusivity Workshop and SafeZone Discussion
## https://blogs.anl.gov/spectrum/tag/resources/


Tag Archives: resources [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://blogs.anl.gov/spectrum/tag/resources/)

> Recent Posts Spectrum Celebrates Pride – What does Pride mean to you? - Transgender Day of Visibility - Argonne and Spectrum Remember Lives Lost in the LGBTQI+ Community during Transgender day of Remembrance - Argonne and Spectrum Observe Transgender Day of Visibility (TDoV) - Spectrum Monthly Meeting, Thursday March 12 2020 - - Tag Cloud Meta Tag Archives: resources LGBTQ+ Friendly Mental Health Support If you’re in crisis and need immediate help, call 911. Illinois Masonic Hospital in Boystown runs a 24-hour crisis line at (773)296-5380. If you are not in crisis but need someone to talk to,┬áthe GLBT National Help Center runs a … Read More Tagged resources Comments Off on LGBTQ+ Friendly Mental Health Support
## https://blogs.anl.gov/spectrum/2022/03/30/transgender-day-of-visibility/


Transgender Day of Visibility [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://blogs.anl.gov/spectrum/2022/03/30/transgender-day-of-visibility/)

> Transgender Day of Visibility (TGDoV) is celebrated on March 31st and is dedicated to celebrating the transgender community as well as raising awareness of the discrimination faced by transgender people every day. Spectrum celebrates the achievements of transgender scientists and engineers whose contributions have brought us semiconductor integration (Lynn Conway), understanding of the effects of climate change on corals (Shayle Matsuda), a better understanding of the human brain (Benn Barres), email attachments (Mary Ann Horton), and at Argonne, the next generation network infrastructure for high-performance computing (Carissa Holohan – ALCF) to name just a few. The reality is that transgender and LGBTQ+ people have existed in science – and all spaces – since the beginning. Spectrum encourages you to read further on the impact the trans community has made, as well as read about the history and issues of the trans community and how to support transgender individuals. Members of the Argonne Leadership Institute, the Diversity Equity and Inclusion Council, and Employee Resource Group Council, worked to collect messages of support from the Argonne community for Transgender Day of Visibility (GIF below). Spectrum would like to thank all of those who participated! Unfortunately, we must also acknowledge the sustained attacks on members of our community happening right now in our country. In the last several months, dozens of anti-trans and anti-LGBTQ+ legislation has been proposed and in many cases, passed into law, including in Utah, Texas and Florida. While we attempt to be optimistic that these policies will be reversed through the legal process, we must also recognize the immediate and profound impact these cruel policies inflict on transgender families and their allies, and the entire LGBTQ+ community. No person deserves to live in fear of their neighbors and government because of their gender identity and for following established medical guidance. This a continuing, troubling trend of legislation targeting vulnerable and marginalized groups, and denying them agency in asserting their very existence. Transgender Day of Visibility highlights the importance of awareness of the Transgender community in countering the spread of harmful misconceptions, ignorance, and blatant misinformation and preventing the oppression of marginalized groups from being protected and encouraged by the laws of our nation. In alignment with our core values of Impact, Safety, Respect, Integrity, and Teamwork, it is our responsibility to learn about the transgender community and ensure we are continuously creating a Laboratory environment where we can all live authentically and contribute our best work. Spectrum also encourages supporting organizations which work to provide resources for Transgender people in the community. (Pete Friedman, co-chair of Spectrum notes: “I support the Brave Space Alliance which is a Black and Trans-led LGBTQ+ center located on Chicago’s south side but there are many other local and national organizations doing great work”)