



# [Comprehensive Cancer Information - NCI](cancer.gov): ~3 pages censored since 1/20/25

## [ccr.cancer.gov](ccr.cancer.gov): ~3 pages censored since 1/20/25

### [Additional Information](https://ccr.cancer.gov/embedded-content/team-content/100881)


> Additional Information Benjamin Simon joined the Molecular Imaging Branch after graduating with Distinction from Duke University in May 2023, earning a dual degree in Biomedical Engineering (BSE) and Computer Science (BA), with a minor in Global Health. Benjamin is passionate about health equity and the potential for Artificial Intelligence algorithms to contribute to widespread access to actionable and accurate healthcare decisions. Through the NIH OxCam program, Benjamin will work with Dr. Ismail Baris Turkbey at the NCI and Dr. David Clifton at Oxford with a focus on building novel translational machine learning algorithms for cancer treatment outcome prediction. He also intends to explore tools and methodologies that address bias and inequity in algorithmic medical decisions. Outside of research, Benjamin is passionate about teaching and education. He taught multiple courses as a teaching assistant during his time at Duke in the Biology, Computer Science, and Global Health departments through which he came to love mentoring his students, and he remains committed to furthering his training in education and teaching throughout his doctoral degree. Benjamin is also an out-and-proud member of the LGBTQ+ community, passionate about being outspoken in the scientific community and uplifting LGBTQ+ and other marginalized voices.
## [Division of Cancer Control and Population Sciences (DCCPS)](cancercontrol.cancer.gov): ~3 pages censored since 1/20/25

### [The Rainbow Connection: Building a Career as an LGBTQ+ Scientist](https://cancercontrol.cancer.gov/ocs/about/events/the-rainbow-connection-building-career-lgbtq-scientist)


> Event Type: Webinar Date: January 31, 2023 Time: 2:00 - 3:00 PM ET Event Series OCS New Investigators Series In this January 31, 2023, webinar, part of the NCI Office of Cancer Survivorship (OCS) New Investigators Series, Dr. Charles Kamen presented The Rainbow Connection: Building a Career as an LBGTQ+ Scientist. He shared his personal and professional journey, as well as his words of advice for LGBTQ+ investigators forging careers in cancer research. Speaker Charles S. Kamen, PhD, MPH Associate Professor of Surgery and Psychiatry, University of Rochester Associate Professor of Surgery and Psychiatry, University of Rochester Assistant Director, Community Outreach and Engagement, Wilmot Cancer Institute Last Updated February 16, 2023
## [Division of Cancer Prevention](prevention.cancer.gov): ~3 pages censored since 1/20/25

### [Vanessa A. White, M.P.H.](https://prevention.cancer.gov/about-dcp/staff-search/vanessa-.-white-m.p.h.)


> Vanessa A. White, M.P.H. Email: vanessa.white@nih.gov Phone: 240-276-6163 Room: 5E524 Biography Vanessa A. White, M.P.H., is a Program Officer in the Division of Cancer Prevention, Breast and Gynecologic Cancer Research Group (BGCRG) with an adjunct appointment with the Community Oncology and Prevention Trials Research Group (COPTRG). Previously, Vanessa was at the National Institute of Digestive Diseases and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK), where she led the NIDDK Sexual and Gender Minority (SGM) Science Work Group, which serves to foster research in SGM health disparities as related to the NIDDK research mission. She was also co-lead of the NIDDK LGBTQ+ Community Support Working Group, which was established to better support NIDDK staff, contractors, and trainees who identify as LGBTQ+ and foster an inclusive and supportive NIDDK workplace. For her leadership in this disparities area, Vanessa won the prestigious NIDDK William J. Coleman, Jr. Award for Diversity and Inclusion. Vanessa worked in microbicides and women’s and girls research, as well as served as a Contracting Officer Representative at the NIH Office of AIDS Research. She has experience working at the local public health and association levels on reproductive and sexual health and maternal and child health. Vanessa is an NCI representative on the NIH SGM Research Coordinating Committee and the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease/Division of AIDS Cross Network Transgender Working Group. She is a Senior Associate Editor of the Annals of LGBTQ Public and Population Health journal. She received her Master of Public Health from Boston University School of Public Health. Vanessa’s portfolio includes serving as a Program Officer for the NCI Community Oncology Research Program (NCORP) community sites and fostering research in SGM cancer prevention and symptom science as well as inclusion of SGM populations in cancer clinical trials.