



# [CBP](charlotteblackpride.org): ~1 pages censored since 1/20/25

## [Charlotte Black Pride](https://charlotteblackpride.org/cbp-2024-official-events)


> a 501(c)3 nonprofit corporation We are super excited about our 2024 Charlotte Black Pride Week! Our theme this year is P.O.P. Pride on Purpose - Make it POP! Being African American and LQBTQIA+ is a profound honor. It's a convergence of identities that embodies perseverance, strength, and rich cultural heritage. Together, these identities intersect to create a tapestry of diversity, resilience, and boundless potential. For CBP it's a distinction that carries with it the responsibility to advocate for justice, equality, and the right to love freely and authentically. Saturday, July 13, 2024 3716 West W.T Harris Blvd Charlotte NC 28269 3-8pm The ART POP Kiki ball is an exhilarating night filled with flips, dips and 10’s. Join us for a fab night with cash prizes. Tables available for purchase. $10 Cover Sunday, July 14, 2024 Pageant Entry Fee: $20 Winners $150-Crowning, 5 Bookings($50), $100 at give-up Doors Open at 6pm Pageant Starts at 7pm $10 - ADMISSION Tuesday July 16, 2024 7-10pm The Frame 4732 Monroe Rd. Suite 110 FREE ADMISSION The Purpose: To celebrate & network with other Black LGBTQ+ Carolina Content Creators; to build a coalition; learn best practices; share resources; discuss latest technology/software; discuss funding opportunities. Who’s Invited: Current & inspiring Black Tuesday July 16, 2024 7-10pm The Frame 4732 Monroe Rd. Suite 110 FREE ADMISSION The Purpose: To celebrate & network with other Black LGBTQ+ Carolina Content Creators; to build a coalition; learn best practices; share resources; discuss latest technology/software; discuss funding opportunities. Who’s Invited: Current & inspiring Black LGBTQ+ Content Creators in the Carolinas Text 980-309-1318 to register. Wednesday, July 17, 2024 Location: Johnson C. Smith University "Grimes Lounge- Mary Crisp Student Union" Time: 7:00 - 9:45pm Doors Open at 6:45pm. Dinner Served Followed by remarks from Director and call to action on the crucial importance of voting this year. Don't miss out on this exciting event! 100 Beatties Ford Rd Thursday, July 18, 2024 7PM - 11PM $20 Advance Tickets $25 At the door Tunes by the legendary DJ Fannie Mae Vendors on-Site Pop Sensation Gereme3 R & B Crooner Carlos DWayne Soulful Siren Johnae’ Thee Egyptian Goddess Dancer/Choreographer Alex White & Co. Dancer/Choreographer Antuwan Brown 100 Beatties Ford Rd Thursday, July 18, 2024 7PM - 11PM $20 Advance Tickets $25 At the door Tunes by the legendary DJ Fannie Mae Vendors on-Site Pop Sensation Gereme3 R & B Crooner Carlos DWayne Soulful Siren Johnae’ Thee Egyptian Goddess Dancer/Choreographer Alex White & Co. Dancer/Choreographer Antuwan Brown Dancer/Choreographer “Scooby” Amir Hoyle Dancer/Choreographer Fredrico Harrell & Co. Pole.Body.Art Visual Artist DeNeer Visual Artist Leslie “Isai” Oliver Smooth Vocals of Jared Martin Neo-Soul singer Shawn Westley Singer/Songwriter ARSENA Spoken Word (art)ivist Tammaka Staley Friday, July 19, 2024 6-9:30PM Meet our New Charlotte Black Pride Board Members in person and we want to meet you!! Live DJ * Raffle Giveaways * Vendors * Food Truck* FREE ADMISSION Saturday, July 20, 2024 12-5 PM FREE ADMISSION Join us at the Charlotte Black Pride Expo as we come together to celebrate pride, embrace diversity, and the uniqueness within the Black LGBTQ+ community. Let’s praise our authentic selves unapologetically and proudly on purpose. Enjoy our marketplace filled with 40+ vendors showcasing a r Saturday, July 20, 2024 12-5 PM FREE ADMISSION Join us at the Charlotte Black Pride Expo as we come together to celebrate pride, embrace diversity, and the uniqueness within the Black LGBTQ+ community. Let’s praise our authentic selves unapologetically and proudly on purpose. Enjoy our marketplace filled with 40+ vendors showcasing a rainbow of products and community services, from handmade crafts and art to organizations dedicated to fostering acceptance, understanding and building community. Experience the culture of the Black LGBTQ+ community and support local artisans and businesses. Feel the energy as performers take the stage. Get ready for a lineup of electrifying entertainment that highlights the creativity of Black LGBTQ+ culture. Saturday July 20, 2024 Join us for the 4th Annual Queen Sugar Bash, by Holiday Wish Foundation. Charlotte Black Pride Copyright © 2024 Charlotte Black Pride - All Rights Reserved.