



# [dni.gov](dni.gov): ~3 pages censored since 1/20/25

## [NSC Senior Director for Multilateral Affairs Curtis Ried Speaks to ODNI LGBTQ+ Employees](https://www.dni.gov/index.php/newsroom/news-articles/news-articles-2022/3613-nsc-senior-director-for-multilateral-affairs-curtis-ried-speaks-to-odni-lgbtq-employees)


> By Erica Tucker, ODNI Office of Strategic Communications IMPACT, ODNI’s LGBTQ+ Employee Resource Group, held its first event in a speaker series on April 18 featuring National Security Council Senior Director for Multilateral Affairs Curtis Ried. Ried has been in the Foreign Service with the U.S. Department of State for nearly 20 years. He served all over the world, including posts in Algeria, East Timor, Indonesia, Iraq, and Israel, and developed a specialization in the Middle East before serving as a political advisor to the U.S. Mission to the United Nations in New York. Currently detailed to the NSC, Ried’s office works to coordinate U.S. engagement with the UN, including oversight of the refugee admission program. During the IMPACT event, Ried discussed his experiences at DOS and the challenges of being out in the national security workforce. He also provided career advice for less-tenured federal employees. Three lessons learned from a discussion between IMPACT co-chair, Michael Friel, and Curtis Ried: - In response to a question about issues affecting the LGBTQ+ community in the national security workforce, Ried explained that it remains a rather traditional environment. His biggest concern is over misperceptions that national security agencies are not welcome to do not appear accepting to potential LGBTQ+ applicants, particularly younger applicants. This misperception could stop young applicants from submitting that first application. He urged participants—to the greatest extent possible given security restrictions—to talk to young professionals in their college alumni networks or to participate in agency-sponsored public affairs events to increase the public’s awareness of the diverse national security workforce. This is particularly important outside of the Washington D.C. area. Specifically regarding the challenges of navigating the clearance process and related interviews as a LGBTQ+ applicant, Ried stressed that the protections are on the applicant’s side. While it can be uncomfortable to discuss your gender identity or sexual orientation with a background investigator, applicants do not have to worry about putting their personal life on display during that process. - In response to a question about the role of LGBTQ+ allies in the current environment, Ried explained that, in his experience, the most meaningful way to be supportive is to help carry the water for the LGBTQ+ community in meetings. Having straight allies raise the importance of building LGBTQ+ policies or protections into broader foreign policy initiatives can be a powerful way to ensure that protections become integrated into the system. Once something gets baked into the system, it carries on beyond any one policy or project. - When asked what career advice he would give to LGBTQ+ employees or their allies that he wishes he could give a younger version of himself, Ried urged participants to decide at the beginning of their careers to be their full selves. He explained that only part of that is the personal decision of when and how to come out in the workplace. He urged participants not to alter mannerisms at work or change the way they behave for a professional environment. He explained that people are at their most effective when they are being themselves. Jobs in national security and in the Intelligence Community (IC) are intense and deal with critical issues. If a person is genuine and good at their job, co-workers will accept them for that. ODNI works every day to promote a “One IC” culture that values diversity across organizational boundaries to accomplish a common mission, and the ERGs are one tool for fostering inclusion from under-represented communities. ERGs, including IMPACT, are led by employee volunteers and regularly work with ODNI Strategic Communications to amplify events or Heritage Month activities to the ODNI workforce and the IC. ODNI is committed to cultivating a diverse, equitable, and inclusive environment for current and future intelligence personnel.
## [Q&A With Former Acting Director of National Intelligence Richard Grenell on Pride in 2020](https://www.dni.gov/index.php/newsroom/news-articles/news-articles-2020/3464-q-a-with-former-acting-director-of-national-intelligence-richard-grenell-on-pride-in-2020?tmpl=component&print=1&layout=default)


> On February 20, Richard Grenell was appointed Acting Director of National Intelligence, becoming the first openly gay DNI and cabinet member in American history. Not long ago, these words would have been an impossibility. For decades, federal law made it so that no amount of education, experience, or intellect could brighten the tarnish of homosexuality in the security clearance process — the gateway into the Intelligence Community. A landmark Executive Order in 1995 set the gears in motion for Grenell to ascend as Acting DNI 25 years later. What would generally be an individual achievement became a benchmark of progress for the U.S. LGBTQ+ community of an estimated 14.8 million. In a Q&A with Grenell, the former Acting DNI shared what it means to be a first, personal moments of pride, and the power of allies. ODNI: As the acting director of national intelligence, you were the first openly gay cabinet-level official. How does being the first make you feel and what challenges have you had to overcome to get here? RG: It is not lost on me that many people have come before me to push for progress. I stand on the shoulders of many people who struggled, failed, and made hard-fought achievements, which is why I do what I can to help other LGBTQ+ members along their career paths. I’ve made it clear that I am not asking for special treatment or special rights — just equal access and consideration. It is important to me that I not be defined by my sexual orientation — I want to be defined by my experience and skills. It undercuts all that I want to do in my career when I’m narrowly defined as a gay ambassador. I’d rather be known as the ambassador who got Germany to ban Hezbollah and finally take back the Nazi prison guard living in the US for over a decade. ODNI: Throughout Pride Month, members of the LGBTQ+ community and allies celebrate with storytelling, parades, and public awareness campaigns. What is your personal history with Pride and when was the first time you felt a profound sense of pride in being gay? RG: I remember walking onto the Mall in Washington, DC, in the summer of 1993 for the first March on Washington, which was also my first Pride event. I was overwhelmed by the crowd — I couldn’t believe there were this many gay people in the United States. As a young kid growing up in an Evangelical Christian home, I sometimes felt like I was the only one going through a crisis of faith brought on by the realization that I was gay. I have the best family in the world — super loving and supportive — but we didn’t know any gay people growing up and I didn’t know how to be gay and a Christian. I erroneously thought it was incompatible. The 1993 march was eye-opening for me because it proved that I wasn’t alone and didn’t have to hide. I set out then on my journey to find a way to be authentic, which for me meant asking a whole bunch of questions about the Bible and modern Christianity. ODNI: In your roles as acting director of national intelligence and as U.S. ambassador to Germany, you have spoken out against laws that discriminate against members of the LGBTQ+ community and worked to decriminalize homosexuality. How have your personal experiences motivated you to speak out on LGBTQ+ issues in your current roles? RG: Growing up in America, we are extremely lucky to have a very supportive society. Many Americans have differing public policy positions on issues impacting the LGBTQ+ community, but travelling a lot has helped me put this in perspective. The United States is the best country in the world for gays and lesbians, and there are many people from around the world — including from the LGBTQ+ community — who are desperate to come to America. I hear from these people every day; people who are brutalized and terrorized for being gay. I read every email, text, or message I get—and it is very hard to hear their stories of violence and fear. ODNI: Who has been your biggest ally in your career and how did they empower you? RG: This is such a good question! In some ways I have had allies like everyone else — people who believe in your skills and admire your work ethic. I would say Ari Fleischer and Ambassador Rich Williamson were great allies early on. I remember once when Ari wanted to promote me to a high-profile job. I said, “But, I’m gay and this may be an issue.” Ari flatly responded, “It shouldn’t matter to anyone and I will make sure it doesn’t.” ODNI: What advice can you share with everyone in the Intelligence Community on being better allies of the LGBTQ+ community? RG: The best ally for the LGBTQ+ community is someone who understands we are just like them. ODNI: You are now working with the Harvey Milk Foundation to launch 69 country-specific decriminalization campaigns. Can you share an international story about how decriminalization has the power to change someone’s life and country for the better? RG: I am incredibly proud to work with my friend Stuart Milk. Stuart’s energy and personality inspires me. Our work to decriminalize homosexuality around the world is a monumental task. We have to have 69 different strategies in this fight because what works in one doesn’t work in all. We have made progress in many countries thanks to truly brave and courageous activists working in the regions. What I would say about our progress is something I learned in my own career over the years — the silent support has increased, but the difference is felt when the silent support becomes public support. ODNI: Many LGBTQ+ members across the United States and world are still afraid to come out in fear of retribution and rejection. What advice would you give them? RG: The most powerful way to change a heart or a mind is for them to know someone who is gay. It demystifies the idea. Your journey must include coming out, so find a support system of friends or certain family members and just do it. You will be disappointed later that it took you so long.
## [“Visibility Matters” in the Intelligence Community](https://www.dni.gov/index.php/newsroom/news-articles/news-articles-2022/3622-visibility-matters-in-the-intelligence-community?tmpl=component&print=1&layout=default)


> Story by Jessica Hrabosky, ODNI Office of Strategic Communications The Intelligence Community has openly celebrated Pride Month for over a decade, but we haven’t always been the best Ally for the LGBTQ+ community. Before the complete repeal of executive order 10450 that prohibited the federal government to deny security clearances to members of the LGBTQ+ community, there were years of judgement, in many cases supported by policy, within the Intelligence Community. In the past, if you were anything other than heterosexual, in many circumstances, you risked being pushed out of the government or fired. For most of the LGBTQ+ community, this caused individuals to hide their true selves in the workplace just to keep their jobs. If you were openly LBGTQ+, investigations were much more intrusive and IC colleagues often distanced themselves. Today, individuals still face challenges coming out, not only in a government workplace, but in everyday life. The ability to be authentic and not hide who you are enables officers to focus on their work, which is ultimately what drives the mission and why individuals choose to work in the IC. As the Office of the Director of National Intelligence and the leader of all 18 agencies, ODNI is committed to lead the IC in advancing an inclusive, diverse, equitable and safe work place environment for employees to thrive. This Pride month, ODNI’s theme “Visibility Matters” emphasized the importance of raising awareness for the LGBTQ+ community not only in the workplace, but to a larger audience outside of the IC. It’s important that all officers, regardless of their sexual orientation or gender identity, feel comfortable being themselves in an open and inclusive environment. “Visibility Matters” also encourages today’s officers to be role models for the next generation as members of the Intelligence Community. ODNI seeks to hire and retain a diverse workforce to ensure that all Americans who want to join the ranks and serve their country are able to do so, without fear of retribution for living their truth.