



# [Keeping America StrongEXIM.GOV](exim.gov): ~12 pages censored since 1/20/25

## [Export Finance Solutions - The Official Blog of the Export-Import Bank](grow.exim.gov): ~12 pages censored since 1/20/25

### [Commemorating Pride Month with Export Resources for LGBTQ+ Businesses](https://grow.exim.gov/blog/reta_jo_lewis_lgbtq_pride_month_2024)


> The Export-Import Bank of the United States (EXIM) joins in celebrating Pride Month each June, recognizing and honoring the extraordinary contributions that LGBTQ+ Americans make to the nation and its economy. To celebrate Pride Month and commemorate that legacy, EXIM is highlighting its trade finance tools for supporting the estimated 1.4 million businesses owned by LGBTQ+ Americans — including a special webinar on June 13. EXIM remains committed to prioritizing equity and helping historically underserved businesses succeed, and President and Chair Reta Jo Lewis offers a special message of encouragement for small businesses. EXIM President and Chair Reta Jo Lewis celebrates LGBTQ+ Pride Month. You also can view her message here. Generating Global Impact When it comes to the financial effect, businesses owned by the LGBTQ+ community generate a substantial economic impact, supplying goods and services domestically as well as exporting them around the globe. Approximately 20 million Americans identify as LGBTQ+, representing more than 7 percent of the U.S. population, according to an analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data. That results in purchasing power of $917 billion, according to the National LGBT Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC). “Think about this: if the total contributed value of the estimated 1.4 million businesses owned by LGBTQ Americans is considered, our input to the national economy is over $1.7 trillion,” said Justin Nelson, NGLCC’s Co-Founder & President. “That would make LGBT Americans the tenth largest economy in the world. For a little perspective, that’s bigger than the economies of Australia, Spain, and Mexico, and the combined economies of Sweden, Norway, and Denmark.” Supporting LGBTQ+ Businesses EXIM is committed to supporting diversity, equity, and inclusion. To help spread the word about EXIM financing to underserved communities, EXIM’s Minority and Women-Owned Business Division (MWOB) works closely with organizations that have a minority trade focus to create opportunities for U.S. companies that are owned by minorities, women, veterans, people with disabilities, and the LGBTQ+ community along with rural and startup businesses. To celebrate Pride Month, we invite you to participate in a virtual event bringing together representatives from the National LGBT Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC), EXIM's MWOB Division, and the U.S. Commercial Service (USCS). This free special event will be held Thursday, June 13, 2024, at 2 p.m. ET: Trade & Pride 2024: Go Global with NGLCC, EXIM & USCS This webinar will include welcoming and closing remarks from agency leaders as well as a panel discussion with LGBTQ+ owned or operated companies that are growing their business through exports. You also will learn about resources you can use to start selling your products abroad. Don't miss this opportunity to learn about the assistance available from the federal government and its partners — register today! Honoring the History The roots of Pride Month date to 1969 in honor of the Stonewall Uprising, which was a turning point for the gay rights movement that stemmed from a police raid on the Stonewall Inn in New York City. That was followed by the first Gay Pride Day in 1970, an annual commemoration that has grown to encompass a month-long series of events held in June. In the decades since then, anti-discrimination efforts have continued, with the first March on Washington for gay and lesbian rights occurring in 1979, the U.S. military ending the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy in 2011, and the Supreme Court legalizing same-sex marriage in 2015. This year, in proclaiming June as Pride Month, President Joe Biden celebrated generations of courageous LGBTQI+ people and praised the example they set in the United States and around the globe. "We reflect on the progress we have made so far in pursuit of equality, justice, and inclusion. We recommit ourselves to do more to support LGBTQI+ rights at home and around the world," President Biden said. To find out how EXIM can help your business compete in the global marketplace, schedule a free consultation with a member of the MWOB team and launch your export journey today.
### [EXIM Celebrates LGBTQ Pride Month](https://grow.exim.gov/pride-fy22)


> June is Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer Pride Month. This annual observance demonstrates how LGBTQ Americans have strengthened our country, using their talent and their creativity to help create awareness and goodwill. Here at the Export-Import Bank of the United States, we want to take a moment to acknowledge those important achievements. Throughout Pride Month, we’ve provided numerous resources for your businesses. But our support doesn’t stop there. EXIM has a team of specialists dedicated to supporting U.S. companies throughout the year. Our Minority and Women Owned Business Division supports businesses of all sizes that are owned by minorities, women, veterans, and people with disabilities. Ready to take the next step? Fill out the form below to receive more information about how EXIM can help your business grow internationally.
### [EXIM Celebrates LGBTQ Pride Month](https://grow.exim.gov/pride)


> This annual observance demonstrates how LGBTQ+ Americans have strengthened our country, using their talent and their creativity to help create awareness and goodwill. Here at the Export-Import Bank of the United States, we want to take a moment to acknowledge those important achievements. Throughout Pride Month, we’ve provided numerous resources for your businesses. But our support doesn’t stop there. EXIM has a team of specialists dedicated to supporting U.S. companies throughout the year. Ready to take the next step? Fill out the form below to receive more information about how EXIM can help your business grow internationally. © 2021 Export-Import Bank of the United States • Accessibility • Privacy Policy • Linking Policy • Privacy Act & Requests
### [EXIM Celebrates LGBTQ Pride Month with a Special Message from Chair Reta Jo Lewis](https://grow.exim.gov/blog/reta_jo_lewis_lgbtq_pride_month_2022)


> With roots dating to the Stonewall Uprising in 1969, LGBTQ Pride Month is celebrated each June, highlighting how generations of LGBTQ individuals have fought to make the possibilities of America real for every American. To honor that legacy, EXIM President and Chair Reta Jo Lewis is presenting a special message from EXIM to celebrate Pride Month. She underscored the valuable contributions of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer Americans across nation, who contribute more than $1.7 trillion to the U.S. economy. “This annual observance demonstrates how LGBTQ Americans have strengthened our country, using their talent and their creativity to help create awareness and goodwill,” Chair Lewis said. “Here at the Export-Import Bank of the United States, we want to take a moment to acknowledge those important achievements.” EXIM President and Chair Reta Jo Lewis celebrates LGBTQ Pride Month. You also can view her message here. Honoring the Resilience of LGBTQ Americans The June 28, 1969, police raid on the Stonewall Inn in New York City was a turning point in the movement for gay rights in the United States. That was followed by the first Gay Pride Day in 1970, an annual commemoration that has grown to encompass a month-long series of events, held in June to mark the Stonewall anniversary. Since those early days, anti-discrimination efforts have continued, with the first March on Washington for gay and lesbian rights occurring in 1979, the U.S. military ending the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy in 2011, and the Supreme Court legalizing same-sex marriage in 2015. In proclaiming June as Pride Month, President Biden called for celebrating the great diversity of the American people, recognizing the achievements of the LGBTQ community, and waving their flags of pride high. “This month, we honor the resilience of LGBTQI+ people, who are fighting to live authentically and freely,” President Biden said. “We reaffirm our belief that LGBTQI+ rights are human rights. And we recommit to delivering protections, safety, and equality to LGBTQI+ families so that everyone can realize the full promise of America." Providing Resources to Support LGBTQ Business Owners In her comments, Chair Lewis noted that EXIM has provided numerous resources for U.S. businesses throughout Pride Month. “But our support doesn’t stop there,” she said. “EXIM has a team of specialists dedicated to supporting U.S. companies throughout the year. Our Minority and Women Owned Business Division supports businesses of all sizes that are owned by minorities, women, veterans, and people with disabilities.” EXIM’s Minority and Women-Owned Business Division (MWOB) works closely with organizations that have a minority trade focus, to help spread the word about EXIM financing and create opportunities for export-ready U.S. businesses. These specialists seek to engage businesses, educate them regarding the availability of EXIM services, and increase the total amount of financing to support their exports of goods and services. The MWOB team recently hosted a webinar in collaboration with the National LGBT Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC) and the U.S. Commercial Service (USCS). The special event featured discussions on advancing inclusive economic growth for the LGBTQ community and highlighted resources that are available to all U.S. businesses. You can see a recording of the webinar here. To find out how EXIM can help your business compete in the global marketplace, schedule a free consultation with a member of the MWOB team and launch your export journey today.
### [EXIM Celebrates Pride Month with Tools to Support LGBTQ+ Businesses](https://grow.exim.gov/blog/reta_jo_lewis_lgbtq_pride_month_2023)


> During Pride Month, the Export-Import Bank of the United States (EXIM) honors the significant contributions that LGBTQ+ Americans make to our nation and our economy. “Every year, Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer Pride Month commemorates the Stonewall Uprising and honors the extraordinary contributions that LGBTQ+ Americans have made to our nation and our economy,” said EXIM President and Chair Reta Jo Lewis. “Here at the Export-Import Bank of the United States, we are proud to join in celebrating Pride Month, which provides an opportunity to reflect on that history and to recognize the resilience of LGBTQ+ Americans." To celebrate Pride Month and honor that legacy, EXIM is highlighting its trade finance tools for supporting the estimated 1.4 million businesses owned by LGBTQ+ Americans. EXIM President and Chair Reta Jo Lewis celebrates LGBTQ+ Pride Month. You also can view her message here. Generating Substantial Economic Impact When it comes to financial impact, the LGBTQ+ community has a major effect. Approximately 20 million Americans identify as LGBTQ+, representing about 8 percent of the U.S. population, according to an analysis of U.S. Census Bureau data. That results in purchasing power of $917 billion, according to the National LGBT Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC). “Think about this: if the total contributed value of the estimated 1.4 million businesses owned by LGBTQ Americans is considered, our input to the national economy is over $1.7 trillion,” said Justin Nelson, NGLCC’s Co-Founder & President. “That would make LGBT Americans the tenth largest economy in the world. For a little perspective, that’s bigger than the economies of Australia, Spain, and Mexico, and the combined economies of Sweden, Norway, and Denmark.” Not only are those businesses owned by the LGBTQ+ community providing their goods and services domestically, they are exporting them to the global marketplace. "We’re proving every day that if you can buy it, an LGBT-owned business can supply it. And if you can supply it, you can export it,” Nelson said. Those comment came during a previous EXIM Pride Month webinar, which you can watch here. Providing Resources to Strengthen LGBTQ+ Businesses EXIM is committed to supporting diversity, equity, and inclusion. To help spread the word about EXIM financing to underserved communities, EXIM’s Minority and Women-Owned Business Division (MWOB) works closely with organizations that have a minority trade focus to create opportunities for U.S. companies that are owned by minorities, women, veterans, people with disabilities, and the LGBTQ+ community along with rural and startup businesses. In celebration of Pride Month, you’re invited to join EXIM’s MWOB team for a free special event on Tuesday, June 27, 2023, at 2 p.m. ET: Trade & Pride 2023: Celebrating National Pride Month You will learn about EXIM’s financing tools and services as well as strategies for successful exporting. The event is being held in partnership with the National LGBT Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC) and the U.S. Commercial Service (USCS). Don't miss this opportunity to learn about the help available from the federal government and its partners — register today! Celebrating the Pride that Powers the Movement The roots of Pride Month date to 1969 in honor of the Stonewall Uprising, which was a turning point for the gay rights movement that stemmed from a police raid on the Stonewall Inn in New York City. That was followed by the first Gay Pride Day in 1970, an annual commemoration that has grown to encompass a month-long series of events held in June. In the decades since then, anti-discrimination efforts have continued, with the first March on Washington for gay and lesbian rights occurring in 1979, the U.S. military ending the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy in 2011, and the Supreme Court legalizing same-sex marriage in 2015. This year, in proclaiming June as Pride Month, President Joe Biden praised the courage of the Stonewall protestors for sparking a civil rights movement and changing the nation forever. “During Pride Month, we honor a movement that has grown stronger, more vibrant, and more inclusive with every passing year,” President Biden said. “Pride is a celebration of generations of LGBTQI+ people, who have fought bravely to live openly and authentically. And it is a reminder that we still have generational work to do to ensure that everyone enjoys the full promise of equity, dignity, protection, and freedom.” To find out how EXIM can help your business compete in the global marketplace, schedule a free consultation with a member of the MWOB team and launch your export journey today.
### [Export Finance Solutions](https://grow.exim.gov/blog/topic/underserved-communities/page/11)


> August 16, 2022 EXIM Chair Reta Jo Lewis Supports Black Business Month with a Special Message As the number of U.S. Black-owned businesses continues to grow, the Export-Import Bank of the United States (EXIM) marks Black Business Month by offering trade finance tools to support these companies... July 21, 2022 EXIM Chair Reta Jo Lewis Highlights How EXIM Will Help Exporters “Make More in America” In 2022, EXIM launched a new tool designed to unlock financing opportunities for U.S. exporters — including small businesses — that will increase their global competitiveness and support American jobs... June 23, 2022 EXIM Celebrates LGBTQ Pride Month with a Special Message from Chair Reta Jo Lewis With roots dating to the Stonewall Uprising in 1969, LGBTQ Pride Month is celebrated each June, highlighting how generations of LGBTQ individuals have fought to make the possibilities of America real ...
### [Export Finance Solutions](https://grow.exim.gov/blog/topic/small-business-assistance/page/10)


> July 03, 2023 EXIM Provides Financing to Help U.S. Businesses "Make More in America" As EXIM joins the nation in celebrating Independence Day, we want to underscore the enhanced value that American-made products provide when U.S. businesses export their goods and services around the w... June 21, 2023 EXIM Celebrates Women Business Owners As part of the ongoing effort to support diversity, equity, and inclusion, the Export-Import Bank of the United States (EXIM) recently created the Council on Advancing Women in Business to advise EXIM... June 08, 2023 EXIM Celebrates Pride Month with Tools to Support LGBTQ+ Businesses During Pride Month, the Export-Import Bank of the United States (EXIM) honors the significant contributions that LGBTQ+ Americans make to our nation and our economy.
### [Export Finance Solutions - The Official Blog of the Export-Import Bank](https://grow.exim.gov/blog/topic/pride-month/page/1)


> June 04, 2024 Commemorating Pride Month with Export Resources for LGBTQ+ Businesses The Export-Import Bank of the United States (EXIM) joins in celebrating Pride Month each June, recognizing and honoring the extraordinary contributions that LGBTQ+ Americans make to the nation and its... June 08, 2023 EXIM Celebrates Pride Month with Tools to Support LGBTQ+ Businesses During Pride Month, the Export-Import Bank of the United States (EXIM) honors the significant contributions that LGBTQ+ Americans make to our nation and our economy. June 23, 2022 EXIM Celebrates LGBTQ Pride Month with a Special Message from Chair Reta Jo Lewis With roots dating to the Stonewall Uprising in 1969, LGBTQ Pride Month is celebrated each June, highlighting how generations of LGBTQ individuals have fought to make the possibilities of America real ...
### [Export Finance Solutions - The Official Blog of the Export-Import Bank](https://grow.exim.gov/blog/topic/mwob/page/12)


> With roots dating to the Stonewall Uprising in 1969, LGBTQ Pride Month is celebrated each June, highlighting how generations of LGBTQ individuals have fought to make the possibilities of America real ... During Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month, the Export-Import Bank of the United States commends the 20 million Asian Americans — about 6 percent of the U.S. population — who have made ... Throughout March, the Export-Import Bank of the United States has provided resources to support women-owned businesses so they can confidently export their American-made goods and services worldwide. ...
### [Free Download: Providing Support for LGBTQ-Owned Small Businesses](https://grow.exim.gov/lgbtq-mwob-guide)


> LGBTQ Community: Tools & Resources for Your Small Business Claim Your Free Guide: In This Download: A recent survey from the U.S. Census Bureau shows that approximately 8% of the population identifies as gay, lesbian, bisexual, or transgender— a total of at least 20 million Americans. An additional 2% identify as a different orientation, raising that total even further. As a result, LGBTQ entrepreneurs make a significant impact, contributing at least $1.7 trillion to the U.S. economy Although EXIM offers financing solutions for all exporters, we proudly offer additional support for these businesses, helping them to successfully and safely grow. To learn about the program, whether your business would qualify, and what resources our MWOB team offers for businesses like yours, fill out the form to download our free guide.
### [LGBTQ Awareness Webinar FY21](https://grow.exim.gov/lgbtq-awareness-webinar-on-demand)


> Download Now: Review the Presentation Slides Save this presentation as a PDF to share with colleagues or review on the go. Save this presentation as a PDF to share with colleagues or review on the go. Arrange a free talk with an EXIM specialist - our trained team is ready to answer all of your export-related questions. Check out EXIM's County Limitation Schedule to see where we can help you export.
## [Keeping America StrongEXIM.GOV](www.exim.gov): ~12 pages censored since 1/20/25

### [Support for LGBTQ-Owned Businesses](https://www.exim.gov/community/minority-women-owned-businesses/lgbtq-owned-businesses)


> As LGBTQ Americans experience growing acceptance across the U.S., businesses are thriving. Yet, many report financial obstacles and similar challenges. EXIM is proud to help members of the LGBTQ community grow their businesses by reaching new customers and markets abroad. How the MWOB Team Helps the LGBTQ Community Working with our specialized MWOB team is like having an export finance expert on your payroll. Whether you are an experienced exporter or have yet to begin, our goal is to help you navigate the next step on your journey. We offer: Want to see what MWOB can do for your business? Fill out our form to request a meeting with our specialists. NEXT STEPS: Get in Touch To get started, fill out our form to request a meeting with one of our specialists.