



# [Fed Communities - Federal Reserve Community Development Insights, Data, and Stories](fedcommunities.org): ~4 pages censored since 1/20/25

## [Ana Kent, Author at Fed Communities](https://fedcommunities.org/author/ana-kent/)


> Author: Ana Kent Facing the future solo: Understanding obstacles for single women and retirementÂ Women encounter specific challenges in retirement planning, including pay and wealth disparities that affect their savings and financial stability. - The economic realities faced by LGBTQ+ adults When it comes to financial security, LGBTQ+ adults have fewer resources than their non-LGBTQ+ counterparts. Not only do disparities in financial well-being exist between these two groups, but evidence also suggests inequality in mental health. - Why supporting working moms benefits families, employers, and you When working women become mothers, they have to weigh the pros and cons of staying at their paid jobs. Here’s how making it easier for moms to work could benefit the US economy, your community, and you. - How the pandemic affected savings and debts, and how we can build wealth for all There were large wealth gaps before the pandemic and rising prices are straining familiesâ resources. Yet there’s hope for an equitable and inclusive wealth recovery. -
## [Sophia Scott, Author at Fed Communities](https://fedcommunities.org/author/sophia-scott/)


> Author: Sophia Scott - The economic realities faced by LGBTQ+ adults When it comes to financial security, LGBTQ+ adults have fewer resources than their non-LGBTQ+ counterparts. Not only do disparities in financial well-being exist between these two groups, but evidence also suggests inequality in mental health.
## [St. Louis Fed Archives](https://fedcommunities.org/contributors/stlouis-fed/page/2/)


> St. Louis Fed Recipes for rural prosperity as populations change Some rural areas are shrinking as young people move away, while others are absorbing an influx of newer US residents. What should rural communities consider as their populations shift? - Lifting voices: The power of Fed community development advisory councils The Fed involves community development advisory councils to consider diverse perspectives from low-income communities when making decisions about monetary policy. - Why Rural Matters to the Fed The Fedโs Rural Learning Community (RLC) shares knowledge about what affects rural communities and how best to foster opportunity in rural areas. - [Watch] A Community Approach to Disaster Recovery Recovering from natural disasters can be difficult for underserved communities, with limited access to disaster funds & insurance. The Federal Reserve & FEMA share how their programs can help low- to moderate-income communities respond. Watch or listen on demand. - Mike Eggleston bridges communities through collaborative research, partnership building Mike Eggleston uses collaboration and research to expand partnerships in lower- income communities with the goal of increasing economic mobility for residents. - The economic realities faced by LGBTQ+ adults When it comes to financial security, LGBTQ+ adults have fewer resources than their non-LGBTQ+ counterparts. Not only do disparities in financial well-being exist between these two groups, but evidence also suggests inequality in mental health. - [Watch] Two sides of one child care dilemma Families want quality early childhood education (ECE) but itโs often competitive to access and costly, especially for care during nontraditional hours. Providers face financial constraints of their own. What does recent research reveal? Watch or listen on demand. - Why equitable access to quality child care matters to the economy Affordable, high-quality child care can be difficult for parents to access. Here is what Fed researchers have learned about supply constraints and demand challenges that hinder equitable access to quality child care. - [Watch] Adapting to COVID-19: Impacts on Lower-Income Communities and Organizations Serving Them in 2022 How can organizations use the Fed’s 2022 National COVID-19 Community Impact Survey data to advocate for themselves and those they serve? In this webinar, experts share their tips. Watch or listen on demand. - Serving communities in a recovering economy From housing support to mental health interventions, nonprofit organizations are playing a major role in mitigating economic uncertainty brought on by the pandemic. -
## [The economic realities faced by LGBTQ+ adults](https://fedcommunities.org/economic-realities-faced-lgbtq-adults/)


> Each June, the PrideFest Festival attracts over 300,000 people to downtown St. Louis. We work nearby at the Federal Reserve Bank of St. LouisÔÇÖ Institute for Economic Equity. We work to support an economy that works for all, regardless of identity, including gender and sexual orientation. Celebrations like PrideFest and Pride month offer time and space to celebrate the LGBTQ+ community. This includes lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer or questioning, and more individuals. These events also offer a chance to reflect on the gaps that exist between LGBTQ+ and non-LGBTQ+ adults. Last year, the St. Louis FedÔÇÖs Institute for Economic Equity decided to research how gender identity and sexual orientation relate to economic outcomes. This topic is increasingly important because many young people (over 1 in 5 Gen Z adults) identify as part of the LGBTQ+ community. Our findings show that LGBTQ+ adults had lower incomes and wealth than their non-LGBTQ+ peers. They were also more likely to experience symptoms of anxiety and depression. In part, these results may be related to discrimination. LGBTQ+ adults are treated differently, and they are less likely to be invited for an interview or offered a job. We found higher rates of employment discrimination in our research as well. LGBTQ+ adults have fewer savings and are less likely to be homeowners Income, wealth, and homeownership are all tied to financial stability and mobility. We found that LGBTQ+ adults had poorer economic outcomes than non-LGBTQ+ adults in all of these three areas. For example, LGBTQ+ adults were more likely to be in low-income households (<$25,000) and less likely to be in high-income households ($100,000+) than non-LGBTQ+ adults. Part of this finding is likely related to job instability. Uncertainty around work schedules and income can make it tough to plan. Even smaller, short-term decisions ÔÇô like when to replace your childÔÇÖs worn-out shoes ÔÇô are more difficult to make when you donÔÇÖt know if youÔÇÖll make enough money next month to pay for the familyÔÇÖs food. For LGBTQ+ adults, financial uncertainty is more common. About 1 in 5 LGBTQ+ adult households experienced a loss of employment income in 2022. - More than 1 in 3 had incomes that varied month-to-month. - Work schedules also varied more than for non-LGBTQ+ adults. - Further, wealth gaps between LGBTQ+ and non-LGBTQ+ adults are also large. Wealth, or what you own less what you owe, is an important personal safety net. Yet, over half (54%) of LGBTQ+ adults had less than $50,000 in household savings and investments in 2021 (compared to only 43% of non-LGTBQ+ adults having that little). And, bisexual women and the group of adults identifying as transgender, nonbinary, and/or a different gender identity had the fewest assets. Finally, our research showed that significant gaps existed in homeownership as well. Owning a home provides financial as well as psychological safety. ItÔÇÖs also the largest asset for most families. Yet only 44% of LGBTQ+ adults were homeowners in 2021, versus over 66% non-LGBTQ+ adults. Large differences were present when we looked more closely within the LGBTQ+ group, as seen in the figure below. Again, bisexual women and adults identifying as transgender, nonbinary, and/or a different gender identity were the least likely to own their homes. Food insecurity, mental health, and discrimination These economic gaps are certainly troubling. Why do they exist, and what consequences might they have? Our second article explored these questions. We found that having lower incomes and less wealth had real negative impacts. Almost half of LGBTQ+ adults (45%) found it somewhat or very difficult to pay for usual household expenses such as food, housing and medical costs during the first half of 2022. This was a time when inflation was quite high. Yet, fewer non-LGBTQ+ adults (34%) had the same difficulties. Many LGBTQ+ adults struggled to pay for food. Almost 1 in 5 were also food insecure. This means that they sometimes or often did not have enough food to eat. Transgender adults were especially likely to experience food insecurity. Finally, our work found that LGBTQ+ adults were more likely to experience discrimination and mental strain. LGBTQ+ adults were about twice as likely to have experienced discrimination as non-LGBTQ+ adults in 2021. This was especially true while working or applying for a job. And most LGBTQ+ adults had symptoms of anxiety or depression in 2021. Over 3 in 4 reported feeling anxious and over 2 in 3 reported feeling depression symptoms. While there are many possible reasons for these high levels of mental strain, experiencing discrimination and stress from financial hardship likely play roles. Moving forward Despite economic hardship and mental strain, LGBTQ+ groups have experienced financial gains. For example, 42% of LGBTQ+ adults said they were better off financially in 2021 than prior to COVID-19. Nevertheless, economic gaps remain. As an increasingly diverse society, itÔÇÖs important to look closely at why these economic inequities persist. Exploring what can be done to promote more equitable economic opportunities is a key step forward. Increased equity can have widespread gains for all of us.