



# [ - Futures Without Violence New](futureswithoutviolence.org): ~1 pages censored since 1/20/25

## https://www.futureswithoutviolence.org/context-and-practice-trauma-informed-approaches-to-building-affirming-environments-for-lgbtq-youth/


Context and Practice: Trauma-Informed Approaches to Building Affirming Environments for LGBTQ + Youth [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.futureswithoutviolence.org/context-and-practice-trauma-informed-approaches-to-building-affirming-environments-for-lgbtq-youth/)

> Context and Practice: Trauma-Informed Approaches to Building Affirming Environments for LGBTQ + Youth Title: Context and Practice: Trauma-Informed Approaches to Building Affirming Environments for LGBTQ+ Youth Date Recorded: August 24, 2016 Click here to access the slides. Click here to access the webinar. Download the closed captioning transcript. Additional Resources: Caring Relationships, Healthy You – Safety Cards and Poster - American Psychological Association – LGBT Youth Resources - Centers for Disease Control and Prevention – Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Health - GSA Network – California Research Control and Prevention – Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Health - Trans Student Equality Resources (TSER) – Phobia & Sexism Infographic - Sex? Sexual Orientation? Gender Identity? Gender Expression? : Knowing the difference can make all the difference to students who do not conform to binary norms - Description: In this workshop, participants will explore the identities and experiences of LGBTQ+ youth who face a variety of structural and interpersonal traumas. We will provide a brief overview of LGBTQ+ youth inequities, and explore the challenges of domestic violence in LGBTQ+ communities along with its impact on youth. We will conclude by sharing the benefits of trauma-informed care for LGBTQ+ youth and share approaches that can be used in participants’ daily programming and care efforts. Learning Objectives: By the end of this webinar participants will be better able to: Increase knowledge of LGBTQ youth identities and structural realities - Share perspective on unique challenges of domestic violence in LGBTQ communities - Address the impact of domestic violence on children and youth - Introduce a trauma informed care approach for supporting LGBTQ youth - Presenters: Martel Okonji, Youth Development Coordinator, Children, Youth & Family Services, Los Angeles LGBT Center - Devika Shankar, Program Coordinator, Family Violence Intervention Services, Los Angeles LGBT Center - Krystal Torres-Covarrubias, OUT for Safe Schools™ Coordinator, Public Policy, Los Angeles LGBT Center - . Questions? Please contact Mie Fukuda at mfukuda@futureswithoutviolence.org This project was supported by Grant No. 2011-MU-MU-K011 awarded by the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, Office of Justice Programs, U.S. Department of Justice. Points of view in this document are those of the authors and do not necessarily reflect the official positions or policies of the U.S. Department of Justice