



# [GLMA: Health Professionals Advancing LGBTQ Equality](glma.org): ~1 pages censored since 1/20/25

## [GLMA's Annual Conference on LGBTQ+ Health](https://www.glma.org/conference.php)


> GLMA's Annual Conference on LGBTQ+ Health Since its inception in 1981, GLMA's Annual Conference on LGBTQ+ Health has served as the premier scientific conference shaping the future of LGBTQ+ health care, where health professionals come together to share innovative breakthroughs and interventions, as well as the latest research on LGBTQ+ health. The conference is open to health care providers of all disciplines, researchers, academics, health administrators, policy experts, advocates, and all LGBTQ+ health supporters. We are looking forward to joining together for GLMA's 42nd Annual Conference on LGBTQ+ Health this year! The conference will take place in Charlotte, North Carolina - September 30 - October 2, 2024. GLMA's Conference Day 1 Monday, September 30, 2024 8:00am - 6:30pm EST GLMA's Conference Day 2 Tuesday, October 1, 2024 8:00am - 6:30pm EST GLMA's Conference Day 3 Wednesday October 2, 2024 8:00am - 2:00pm EST This year's conference theme, Practice with Pride, serves as a powerful reminder of the collective power of pride as we shape a better and healthier future for the LGBTQ+ community. The theme underscores the profound connection between LGBTQ+ representation, allyship, and health equity, recognizing that a healthcare system that authentically reflects and respects the diversity of the population it serves is better equipped to address the unique needs and challenges faced by LGBTQ+ individuals. By practicing with pride, health professionals create a more inclusive and equitable healthcare landscape for everyone. Continuing Education Attendees of the 42nd Annual Conference on LGBTQ+ Health will have the opportunity to earn CME/CE credits live during this year’s conference. Stay tuned for updates on the 2024 session and speaker roster for more info on this year’s CME and non-CME sessions. By attending the Annual Conference on LGBTQ+ Health, you will enhance your professional skills and demonstrate your commitment to providing high-quality, culturally responsive care to all patients. Completion of this program does not ensure or guarantee AASECT certification. For further information please contact info@aasect.org Keep in Touch Join our mailing list to receive the latest updates about the Annual Conference on LGBTQ+ Health—including registration, speakers, and sessions—throughout the year.