



# [HIV and AIDS ResourcesHIV.gov](hiv.gov): ~3 pages censored since 1/20/25

## [Biden-Harris Administration Greenlights Coverage of LGBTQ+ Care as an Essential Health Benefit in Colorado](https://www.hiv.gov/blog/biden-harris-administration-greenlights-coverage-lgbtq-care-essential-health-benefit-colorado)


> Biden-Harris Administration Greenlights Coverage of LGBTQ+ Care as an Essential Health Benefit in Colorado Topics Cross-posted from HHS Newsroom New health plan benchmarks expand access to care for transgender patients For the first time, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) approved a request to provide gender-affirming care in the individual and small group health insurance markets as part of Colorado's Essential Health Benefit (EHB) benchmark. Today's landmark step is aligned with the Biden-Harris Administration's efforts to address health care disparities by removing longstanding barriers and expanding access to care for transgender persons. Colorado's new EHB-benchmark plan will enhance access to coverage for gender-affirming care that meets individual needs and discourages the use of a "one-size-fits-all" framework for transgender persons seeking medical care. Changes to the EHB-benchmark plan will allow access to a wider range of services for transgender individuals in addition to benefits already covered. Such treatments will include eye and lid modifications, face tightening, facial bone remodeling for facial feminization, breast/chest construction and reductions, and laser hair removal. The state is also adding EHBs in the benchmark plan to include mental wellness exams and expanded coverage for 14 prescription drug classes. These changes will take effect beginning on January 1, 2023. "Health care should be in reach for everyone; by guaranteeing transgender individuals can access recommended care, we're one step closer to making this a reality," said HHS Secretary Xavier Becerra. "I am proud to stand with Colorado to remove barriers that have historically made it difficult for transgender people to access health coverage and medical care." "Health care should be accessible, affordable and delivered equitably to all, regardless of your sexual orientation. To truly break down barriers to care, we must expand access to the full scope of health care, including gender-affirming surgery and other treatments, for people who rely on coverage through Medicare, Medicaid & CHIP and the Marketplaces," said CMS Administrator Chiquita Brooks-LaSure. "Colorado's expansion of their essential health benefits to include gender-affirming surgery and other treatments is a model for other states to follow and we invite other states to follow suit." Gender-affirming care is considered a standard level of care by the American Medical Association, the American Academy of Family Physicians, and the American Psychiatric Association. Transgender patients often face discriminatory hurdles in accessing medically necessary health care services that affirm gender identity. The Affordable Care Act (ACA) requires non-grandfathered health plans in the individual and small group markets to provide coverage in 10 categories of EHBs, including preventive and wellness services, chronic disease management, maternity and newborn care, hospitalization, prescription drugs, mental health and substance use disorder services, behavioral health treatment, and lab services. CMS regulations allow states the flexibility to develop state-specific "benchmark" plans that detail the specific services covered among these broad categories based on a typical employer plan offered in the state. CMS recognizes that expanded, gender-affirming coverage vastly improves health care outcomes for the LGBTQ+ community, reduces high rates of depression, anxiety, and suicide attempts as well as decreases substance use, improves HIV medication adherence, and reduces rates of harmful self-prescribed hormone use.
## [LGBTQ+ Pride Month](https://www.hiv.gov/blog/lgbtq-pride-month)


> LGBTQ+ Pride Month Topics Cross-posted from the National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STDs, and TB Prevention June 23, 2021 Dear Colleague, June is LGBTQ+ Pride Month—a time to recognize and celebrate LGBTQ+ communities, honor the history of Pride, and commit to working together to ensure continued progress. The origins of Pride Month are deeply rooted in community and political activism. The historic Stonewall uprising that took place the morning of June 28, 1969 served as a galvanizing event—one year later, to commemorate the riots, thousands of marchers took to the New York City streets in the nation’s first gay pride march. Thanks to decades of tireless advocacy, LGBTQ+ people now hold visible leadership roles in local, state, and federal government; can openly serve in the U.S. Military; and legally marry in all 50 states. In March 2021, the nonpartisan Public Religion Research Institute published a report showing nationwide support for anti-discrimination laws and marriage equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender people reached an all-time high. Progress has also been made when it comes to LGBTQ+ rights and public health, such as the removal of the 22-year travel ban that prohibited all persons with HIV from obtaining tourist visas or permanent residence status, though clearly there is much more to be done—and we, as a society and as public health, must not maintain the systems that support these inequities and propagate injustice. HIV has been inextricably linked with gay men’s health since the early 1980s, when officials initially termed what would later become known as AIDS, Gay-Related Immune Deficiency (GRID). In these early days of the HIV epidemic, fear of casual transmission meant that many gay men had to fight for visibility and equality not only in the eyes of the law, but also in the eyes of their healthcare providers. Today, LGBTQ+ communities continue to face HIV-related stigma and discrimination, with LGBTQ+ people of color facing even greater challenges. One area of ongoing concern is HIV criminalization laws—legislation specifically passed with the intent of reducing HIV transmission by sanctioning individuals whose behavior potentially exposed people to HIV. Many of these laws criminalize behaviors that do not transmit HIV. Because HIV disproportionately affects Black/African Americans persons, Hispanic/Latino persons, gay and bisexual men, and transgender persons, HIV criminalization laws are disproportionately applied to persons of color and LGBTQ+ populations. Systemic racism and lack of access to quality, gender-affirming healthcare and wrap-around services, such as transportation, safe and stable housing, and employment services allow racial/ethnic disparities among LGBTQ+ populations to persist. Health equity is a bridge to justice, but we cannot get there until we dismantle the structures that systematically disadvantage certain groups and prevent LGBTQ+ persons, especially LGBTQ+ persons of color, from attaining their best possible health. We do not have to accept what is unacceptable. Stonewall activists Marsha P. Johnson and Sylvia Rivera, transgender heroines of color, ignited a revolution by standing up to oppressive forces and dedicated their lives to fighting for the health and safety of all LGBTQ+ people. What led to change following the night of the Stonewall riot is what is needed to achieve health equity, social justice, and end the HIV epidemic today: community activism, partnership to affect structural change, and the collective resolve to remain in this fight until it’s over. Sincerely, /Demetre Daskalakis/ Demetre Daskalakis, MD, MPH Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention Centers for Disease Control and Prevention www.cdc.gov/hiv /Jonathan Mermin/ Jonathan H. Mermin, MD, MPH Rear Admiral and Assistant Surgeon General, USPHS Director, National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention Centers for Disease Control and Prevention www.cdc.gov/nchhstp
## [Using the Arts and Dance to Engage Black and Latino LGBTQ+ Individuals and Reduce HIV Stigma](https://www.hiv.gov/blog/using-the-arts-and-dance-to-engage-black-and-latino-lgbtq-individuals-and-reduce-hiv-stigma)


> Using the Arts and Dance to Engage Black and Latino LGBTQ+ Individuals and Reduce HIV Stigma Topics Summary: Jeremiah Givens shares more about the Persuasive Campaign by REACH LA, one of three Phase 3 winners of the Innovative Community Engagement Strategies to Reduce HIV-related Stigma and Disparities Challenge. Sponsored by the HHS Office of Minority Health, in partnership with the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health (OASH) Office of Infectious Disease and HIV/AIDS Policy (OIDP), the Innovative Community Engagement Strategies to Reduce HIV-related Stigma and Disparities Challenge (the Challenge) sought innovative and effective approaches for community engagement and mobilization to reduce HIV stigma. It also sought to improve pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) and antiretroviral therapy (ART) utilization among racial and ethnic minority individuals who are at increased risk for HIV infection or are people with HIV. The Challenge advanced through three phases and awarded a total of $760,000. It received more than 80 submissions and selected three winners, awarding each of the Phase 3 winners a $60,000 prize to advance their work. HIV.gov is sharing the work of Realistic Education in Action Coalition to Foster HealthExit Disclaimer (REACH LA), one of the Phase 3 winners. The Intervention As a Challenge winner, REACH LA, through its gender and sexual-identity-diverse staff who, in addition to their professional careers, also work as social media influencers, dancers, and other creatives at large, developed the Persuasive Campaign and its precursor, the Wellness, Action, Prevention (WAP) video. To address HIV stigma, discrimination, prevention, testing, and other HIV-related issues, the campaign uses REACH LAâs decades-long history and relationships with Los Angeles house and ballroom communities to create musical interpolation videos. These videos include narratives, messages, and storytelling that promote, for example, PrEP, condoms, and HIV medication. We recently spoke with REACH LAâs Chief Communications Officer, Jeremiah Givens, about its use of dance and the arts within the house and ballroom community as well as the Latino party crews to reach its priority populationsâBlack and Latino gay/bisexual men, women of trans experience, and non-binary individuals ages 13â39. REACH LA employs its four pillarsExit Disclaimer of social enterprise - creative arts - personal development, and - health and wellness - to engage communities, focusing on HIV prevention education, HIV testing, linkage to care, and mental health support services for HIV-positive and high-risk negative youth and young adults. Jeremiah explained that the Persuasive Campaign uses songs that are ârelevant, current, and also considered iconic regarding the artist choices. We used songsâsometimes, by openly gay men of color like Frank Ocean and Lil Nas Xâto promote reducing and ending HIV stigma by addressing issues such as stigmatizing language, masculinity, HIV status, and U=Uâ (undetectable equals untransmittable). The final videos premiered at a popular local bar that the organization often uses for its events. Jeremiah described how the uniqueness of the campaign, as well as REACH LAâs staff, positions the organization to meet people where they are. The Impact âWe are the demographic that we are serving,â Jeremiah shared. âWhat we produce and what we service is for us, by us! A lot of us come from the different lived experiences who have experienced increased stigma in our communityâwhether it be our Blackness, indigeneity, sexuality, or gender.â The benefit of having a staff that shares the experiences of the community it serves created opportunities for REACH LA to expand its telehealth and free PrEP programs. âThe best thing we can do is to express boldly and proudly who we are so that other people can feel empowered to do the same,â Jeremiah added. Additionally, Jeremiah explained that the campaign yielded âan uptick in HIV tests, increased doxycycline post-exposure prophylaxis (Doxy-PEP) access, expanded registration in our incentivized HIV programming, and facilitated the enrollment of over 500 people into our free PrEP program.â Further, REACH LA was able to distribute HIV self-test kits and schedule appointments for on-site HIV testing at its facility. The campaign has also allowed REACH LA, as Jeremiah offered, âto use this video as a marketing piece and leverage for continuing the Ending the HIV Epidemic in the U.S. (EHE) initiative and the CDCâs Letâs Stop HIV Together campaign. Being able to partner and leverage our messaging for those [initiatives] has created a great impact also.â Next Steps Jeremiah shared that REACH LA will continue hosting weekly workshops and groups to engage the community, providing care such as testing and wellness support. The organization will also keep gathering input from the Community Advisory Board and focus groups to maintain authentic and unfiltered feedback. âIt is crucial when the community feels heard, and we prioritize that value.â Additionally, REACH LA will explore creative tools to combat HIV stigma and promote PrEP and treatment through arts, wellness, social, and personal development programs that resonate with the community. We encourage you to learn more about: