



# [lanl.gov](lanl.gov): ~5 pages censored since 1/20/25

## [Los Alamos National Laboratory](discover.lanl.gov): ~5 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://discover.lanl.gov/news/lgbtq-scientific-contributions/


Cracking codes, delivering medicine and launching into space: LGBTQ+ scientific contributions in history [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://discover.lanl.gov/news/lgbtq-scientific-contributions/)

> Their scientific contributions saved lives during World War II and helped further our achievements in space. In honor of Pride Month, members of LANLâs LGBTQ+ employee resource group (ERG), Prism, share just a few of the notable LGBTQ+ trailblazers in science. Alan Turing (1912-1954) was an early computer scientist and mathematician who defined computability and invented the Turing machine. Turing was a cryptologist during World War II, and his success in breaking the Nazi Enigma machine coded messages are estimated by scholars to have shortened the war and saved thousands of lives. Near the end of the war, John von Neumann â a scientist at Los Alamos â relied on Turingâs work defining the limits of computability as he implemented computers like MANIAC. Turing was prosecuted for being homosexual, but pardoned by the British government in 2009, decades after his death. His image will appear on the 50-pound British bank note this June. Margaret "Mom" Chung (1889-1959) was the first known American-born Chinese woman to become a physician. In the 1920s, she established one of the first Western medical clinics in San Franciscoâs Chinatown. During the 1930s and 40s, through weekly dinners hosted at her home and many care packages sent to the troops, she formed a network of more than 1,500 people, mainly servicemen but also including celebrities and politicians like John Wayne and Ronald Reagan, who considered themselves her âadoptiveâ children. She used her influence to support the Allied cause in WWII, including lobbying for the creation of the WAVES, the womenâs naval reserve. Although she did not openly identify as a lesbian, rumors of Chungâs sexuality followed her throughout her life. During her medical training, she had adopted masculine clothing and went by the name âMike;â later, she presented as more feminine. She never married, but it is known that she had several romantic relationships with women, including the poet Elsa Gidlow and the entertainer Sophie Tucker, and she frequented the bars and cafes that comprised the growing queer subculture in San Francisco. Dr. Sally Ride (1951-2012) was the first U.S. woman astronaut to go to space. Ride answered a newspaper ad for astronauts and was accepted into the space program in 1978. She flew on the Challenger shuttle on June 18, 1983, and was the first woman as well as the youngest American to travel to space at that time. Ride served as an investigator for both the Challenger explosion in 1986 and the Columbia crash in 2003. She was known for her ability to stay cool under pressure, which served her well as she fielded sexist questions and comments about her sex. She retired from NASA in 1987 and became a fellow at the Center for International Security and Arms Control at Stanford and later a professor of physics at the University of California, San Diego. In 2001, she founded Sally Ride Science, an organization dedicated to "making science and engineering cool again," through curriculum development and teacher training. It was revealed in Ride's obituary in 2012 that she had a partner of 27 years, which, due to Ride's lifelong protection of her personal life, was widely unknown. LA-UR-21-25983
### https://discover.lanl.gov/news/0607-pride-month


During Pride Month, a reminder of why diversity matters [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://discover.lanl.gov/news/0607-pride-month)

> By Kelly Beierschmitt Diversity is a critical component of every workplace. As all leaders know, the more diverse employeesâ backgrounds, ideas and experiences are, the more successful the organization is. As a leader at Los Alamos National Laboratory, I know this firsthand. Iâve seen time and again how bringing together diverse teams where everyone has a voice results in more creative problem-solving and better team cohesion. It also bolsters morale. Thatâs why the Laboratory is committed to creating a workplace atmosphere where people from every background feel welcomed and their input valued. To this end, we have a vast network of employee resource groups to advocate for often underrepresented populations â from Native Americans to women in STEM; from military veterans to people with disabilities. In total, we have 12 ERGs to meet different workforce needs. Laboratory management works closely with these ERGs to hear and address their concerns and to celebrate their contributions. For example, this is Pride Month, when we recognize the important contributions of the LGBTQ+ community to our communities and workplaces, and celebrate their hard-fought battle for equal rights. As part of this celebration, during Pride Week, the Laboratory flies the Progress Pride flag at five locations in both Los Alamos and Santa Fe. Members of our Prism ERG, the LGBTQ+ advocacy group, will also participate in area Pride celebrations by staffing booths and marching in parades. This community has a long history of contributing to our national missions and we want to continue to support a diverse workforce. But equally as important to these external displays of solidarity and support is what happens on the Los Alamos campus. Through Prism, employees are given the opportunity to attend or participate in presentations about different issues impacting the LGBTQ+ community. The Laboratory is also designating 200 single-stall restrooms across the site as gender-neutral and providing employees with a locator map so they can be easily accessed. Read the rest of the story as it appeared in the Santa Fe New Mexican on June 4.
### https://discover.lanl.gov/news/0608-lgbtq-art-installation/


LGBTQ+ art installation, Post With Pride, supports mission focus on diversity [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://discover.lanl.gov/news/0608-lgbtq-art-installation/)

> Los Alamos National Laboratoryâs lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer, and questioning (LGBTQ+) employees and their supporters created the Labâs first Post-It note window art installation on June 6. In a visible display promoting diversity, hundreds of people jotted words of support on Post-Its. Six windows of the Labâs centrally located Otowi building third-floor breezeway were transformed into the six vibrant stripes of the iconic gay pride rainbow flag. ââBe the danceâ is my favorite of the Post With Pride messages,â said Michael Davis with the Labâs LGBTQ+ Employee Resource Group. Other notes included: Love is love. - Diversity makes the world go âround. - Inclusion and engagement make a better LANL. - Proud to work for a supportive employer. - We support you. #LANLPride - âDiversity is a critical part of building a best place to workâone of the Labâs strategic goals,â said Diversity Officer C.J. Bacino. âWe wanted to create an activity that shows LANL is a welcoming, inclusive, engaging place for everybody.â The event was documented in a stop-motion video to be shared on social media to assist with new employee recruitment. âPart of the purpose of this event is to share our work culture in a visible and interactive way,â said Amy Chacon with the Office of Diversity and Strategic Staffing.
## [Research Library](researchlibrary.lanl.gov): ~5 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://researchlibrary.lanl.gov/posts/featured-subject-guide-lgbtq-in-stem


Don’t get ghosted: Beware of ChatGPT generated citations [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://researchlibrary.lanl.gov/posts/featured-subject-guide-lgbtq-in-stem)

> LGBTQ+ people in STEM fields have faced unique barriers throughout history, many of which persist today. In fact, there is now an International Day of LGBTQIA+ People in STEM in order to commemorate LGBTQ+ scientists and researchers in STEM fields, and bring light to the persisting barriers. Check out the Research Library’s LGBTQ+ in STEM subject guide for more information, including: Videos and other resources that provide insight into persisting and past barriers for LGBTQ+ people in STEM, such as the Lavender Scare. - Links to relevant events and organizations. - Profiles of prominent LGBTQ+ scientists throughout history and today. - Practical readings for building awareness and identifying ways to eliminate barriers to equality for LGBTQ+ people in STEM fields. - Click here to visit the LGBTQ+ in STEM subject guide. Find additional LGBTQ+ resources such as open access journals, articles, archives, books, and more on the Open Access for ERGs guide.
## [](www.lanl.gov): ~5 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://www.lanl.gov/careers/diversity-inclusion/erg/lgbtq/index.php


Prism: LGBTQ+ Employee Resource Group [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.lanl.gov/careers/diversity-inclusion/erg/lgbtq/index.php)

> Prism: LGBTQ+ Employee Resource Group Contact Us Culture of inclusion Prism, the Lab’s Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer+ (LGBTQ+) Employee Resource Group (ERG), fosters an inclusive workplace culture that supports the LGBTQ+ employee base. Prism provides and promotes LGBTQ+ visibility among staff and with management about current workplace and social issues that affect the LGBTQ+ community. Through networking, educational events, outreach, and more, Prism strives to create a safe space for LGBTQ+ employees while maintaining diversity in thoughts and ideas across the Laboratory. All Lab staff—LGBTQ+ and allies—are welcome to join and support this ERG. If you are interested in participating in any of our meetings or events, please contact prismboard@lanl.gov. News Post-It note art installation supports LGBTQ+ employees (Huffpost article) - Los Alamos Pride Week Joins Online Celebrations Nationwide (Los Alamos Reporter) - Resource Groups Lead the Way for Pride Month at Energy (Energy.gov) - Los Alamos Lab flying LGBTQ Flag for First Time (Berkeley Lab) - Calendar of events Date| Time| Event Name| Location| Fourth Thursday| 11 a.m. - 12 p.m.| Monthly Meeting| Virtual via WebEx| March 25| 11 a.m. - 12 p.m.| Monthly Meeting with Dr. Karissa Sanbonmatsu on how to be an ally to your trans colleagues | WebEx details on internal website| March 29| 2 - 5 p.m.| oSTEM 2021 Virtual Spring Career & Graduate Expo | Register here: https://app.brazenconnect.com/a/oSTEM/e/Bbvzj| April 22| 11 a.m. - 12 p.m.| Monthly Meeting with Beth Stelle, Ph.D., presentation on phonology research relevant to the trans community | WebEx details on internal website|