



# [lgbtqequity.org](lgbtqequity.org): ~2 pages censored since 1/20/25

## https://lgbtqequity.org/resources/


RESOURCES [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://lgbtqequity.org/resources/)

> Learning About Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity & Expression This video, available in English, Spanish, Portuguese, and French, reviews basic terminology that is important to know when working with people who have diverse sexual orientations or gender identities. This terminology includes sex assigned at birth, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation, and more. SOGIE Glossary of Terms This glossary of terms related to sexual orientation, gender identity, and expression (SOGIE) is a resource for behavioral health practitioners to better understand language commonly used in LGBTQ+ communities. The glossary is available in English, Spanish, and Portuguese. It should be noted that people use terms in different ways, and the best practice is always to honor language an individual uses to identify themselves. LGBTQ+ -Affirming Treatment of Substance Use Disorders Understanding the stressors and protective factors that influence substance use in LGBTQ+ populations is extremely important to providing optimal prevention, treatment, and recovery care to the population. The Center of Excellence on LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health Equity and the Opioid Response Network are committed to assuring all LGBTQ+ people seeking support for substance use get affirming care and have partnered to create this animated short outlining important data and best practices for substance use professionals. This animation is also part of a longer scenario and discussion-based training that will be launching soon. Sign up for updates on the release: https://orn.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV… Providing Equitable and Affirming Care to LGBTQ+ Older Adults Millions of LGBTQ+ older adults are resilient survivors who have faced significant discrimination in life and when seeking social supports and health care. The Center of Excellence on LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health Equity and the E4 Center of Excellence for Behavioral Health Disparities in Aging are committed to assuring that all older adults get optimal healthcare and have created an animated short outlining best practices for providers to assure equitable and LGBTQ+ affirming care for all. Equity Focused Suicide Prevention, Intervention, and Postvention Resources for LGBTQ+ Populations This resource guide contains information on important programs and services that can aid in the prevention, intervention, and postvention of suicide among lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and questioning (LGBTQ+) populations. The few programs and services available and tailored to LGBTQ+ populations have varied levels of outcome data available. Users of this guide should also be aware that even though there are a number of programs and services listed in this guide, their availability across the country varies. Important Tips for Supporting Families of LGBTQ+ People As mental health providers, you may talk to family members in distress, or who describe family conflict related to their loved one’s LGBTQ+ identity. It is important that you know how to effectively support families through these challenging discussions. The goal should be to meet family members “where they are” with their own experiences, worries, and questions while simultaneously modeling an affirmative stance toward LGBTQ+ identities. Research has shown that when families support and affirm their LGBTQ+ loved ones, it reduces anxiety, depression, suicidal ideation, harmful substance use, and other negative life and health outcomes for the LGBTQ+ person (Ryan, 2009). It is imperative that we provide non-judgmental spaces for families to seek support while also offering them resources that will improve their abilities to affirm their LGBTQ+ family member. This new tool provides helpful tips to keep in mind as you work with family members. How to Signal to LGBTQ+ People that you are an Affirming Provider As someone who likely provides behavioral health services to LGBTQ+ people, even if you are unaware of their identities, it is important you know how to demonstrate that you are an affirming provider. By actively demonstrating that you are an affirming provider, you could be opening the door to vital discussions about your client’s identities, strengths, hardships, family life, stressors, and other important areas of life. To treat each person with dignity and the best care possible, we must make space for them to be their authentic selves, to be vulnerable, and to be able to seek support without the fear of discrimination. Download this helpful guide for some tips to ensure that you are an affirming behavioral health provider. Provider Guidelines for Asking About Names and Pronouns in Mental Health Care Settings Transgender and gender diverse (TGD) people do not always feel comfortable disclosing their gender identity information or transgender status in medical contexts, often due to fear of discrimination and lack of knowledgeable providers. Further, due to state and other local policies, TGD people seeking and receiving gender-affirming care face confidentiality concerns such as disclosure of names and pronouns to people who may put them at risk of physical or emotional harm. This guidance offers important considerations for asking about gender identity and pronouns in ways that safeguard confidentiality. LGBTQ+ Trauma-Informed Care Infographic In conjunction with the release of the webinar recording, Translating Trauma-informed Care Principles into Practice with LGBTQ+ Clients, the Center of Excellence on LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health Equity has created a new infographic on the six principals of trauma-informed care adapted for use with clients with diverse sexual orientations, gender identities, and expressions. 10 Self-Care Tips for Providers Working with LGBTQ+ Clients As behavioral health professionals providing care to people experiencing anti-LGBTQ+ bias, racism, and other forms of discrimination and injustice, it is extremely important to develop self-care and stress management plans to safeguard your own mental health and wellbeing. Our clients need us to be refreshed and restored if we are going to be agents of therapeutic care and effectiveness. Self-care is not selfish! In fact, it is essential to prevent burnout. This tipsheet from the Innovations Institute’s Center of Excellence on LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health Equity provides some strategies to help combat these feelings and restore hope for the future. COVID-19 and Its Impacts on the LGBTQ+ Community To provide appropriate care to LGBTQ+ populations, behavioral health providers need to know the impact that COVID-19 has had, and continues to have, on their quality of life. The statistics included in this infographic provide insight into the experiences of LGBTQ+ youth, adults, and people of color during the pandemic. The data encompasses access to mental health and medical care, employment loss, and financial difficulties. The Holiday Checklist for LGBTQ+ People Holidays can be challenging times for LGBTQ+ folk. It is a time when families traditionally get together and engage in family and religious rituals. For LGBTQ+ folk whose families are not affirming, it may mean making a choice between being with your family of origin, being with a family of choice, or celebrating alone. This checklist contains some tips to navigate the holidays from some of our LGBTQ+ experts. Things to Consider When Your LGBTQ+ Clients Plan to Attend Family Gatherings Holidays, weddings, funerals and other family gatherings can be challenging times for LGBTQ+ clients. It is a time when your clients may traditionally get together and engage in family and religious rituals. For LGBTQ+ people whose families are not affirming, it may mean making a choice between being with their family of origin, being with a family of choice (friends and loved ones), or being alone. This document contains some tips to help you to prepare your LGBTQ+ clients navigate family gatherings. Eating Disorders in LGBTQ+ Populations Individuals who identify as LGBTQ+ are at increased risk for eating disorders due to a variety of circumstances. It is important to understand the risk factors, what to look for, and protective factors when caring for this population. Download this infographic, created in partnership with the National Center of Excellence for Eating Disorders, to learn more. Black LGBTQ+ Mental Health Black LGBTQ+ people experience high rates of discrimination and stigma due to having more than one marginalized identity, including their racial identity and their sexual orientation/gender identity. Based on cutting edge research on intersectional experiences of Black LGBTQ+ people, the Center of Excellence on LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health Equity and the African American Behavioral Health Center of Excellence have collaborated to create this new infographic on mental health impacts of these experiences, including tips for how behavioral health providers can support Black LGBTQ+ individuals. Practice Considerations: Use of the SBIRT Model Among Transgender & Nonbinary Populations The Screening, Brief Intervention, and Referral to Treatment (SBIRT) model has been shown to be an effective approach for the identification and intervention for hazardous substance use, misuse, and substance use disorders and for reducing the potential for psychosocial and/or health problems. However, application of the model for use among transgender and nonbinary (TNB) populations has yet to be fully understood and requires additional research. This document provides practice guidance for the utilization of the SBIRT model with TNB populations. Language Guidance When Serving LGBTQ+ Populations The CoE LGBTQ+ BHE has created this language guidance related to sexual orientation, gender identity, and expression (SOGIE) as a resource for behavioral health practitioners to better understand the most recent language used in LGBTQ+ communities. The guidance outlines outdated language, updated language, and why each matters. Resources for Supporting the Bisexual Community In recognition of Bisexual Visibility Day, which is celebrated each year on September 23, the CoE LGBTQ+ BHE has compiled a list of resources for professionals to use to better support the unique needs of bisexual people. Please share this list with your colleagues and post on social media with the hashtag #BiVisibilityDay! Download the accompanying Social Media Toolkit for recommended language and a graphic. Supporting the Behavioral Health Workforce to Implement Best Practices for LGBTQ+ People All behavioral health care organizations provide services to LGBTQ+ people and their families, regardless of the organization’s size, location, or type of service provided. Therefore, it is imperative for organizational leadership to put policies and practices in place that affirm LGBTQ+ people. This tip sheet outlines actions leaders can take to support their workforce in being more welcoming and inclusive. This resource was created in partnership with the National Family Support Technical Assistance Center. FAQs on Medicaid Coverage for LGBTQ+-Affirming Behavioral Health Services Medicaid covers a variety of LGBTQ+-affirming services, but it is not always clear which services are eligible or how providers should bill for them. This document provides answers to frequently asked questions about financing LGBTQ+-affirming behavioral health services through Medicaid. The types of care addressed include group therapy, family therapy, gender-affirming care, and culturally adapted programs. Links to additional resources and further reading are also provided. Minority Stress & Coping for LGBTQ+ Adolescent Health LGBTQ+ adolescents are at heightened risk for many behavioral health outcomes, including misuse of alcohol, tobacco, and other drugs (ATOD). Decades of research suggests that these experiences are tied to discrimination, known as “minority stress.” Recent research has identified a number of key life experiences that drive ATOD use among LGBTQ+ youth. This resource provides a variety of common stressors and conversation starters which can open the door to an evidence-based approach to intervention. Supporting Trans & Nonbinary Clients in Experiencing Gender Euphoria While gender dysphoria among transgender and nonbinary (TNB) people is a widely researched and documented experience, the same cannot be said for gender euphoria. This tip sheet, based on a recent qualitative study by Austin, Papciak, and Lovins (2022), defines gender euphoria, provides real-life examples from participants, and outlines how behavioral health practitioners can help their TNB clients experience affirmation, confidence, and joy around their gender identity. Providing Welcoming Transportation to the LGBTQ+ Community As someone who provides transportation services to our communities, it is important to understand how to provide a welcoming environment for LGBTQ+ people, and making them feel supported in community spaces, like the use of transportation. When people feel safe while traveling with us, it is much more likely that they will use these services to access important community resources or appointments. This tip sheet, created in partnership with the National Aging and Disability Transportation Center, provides recommendations that anyone providing transportation services can implement. Eating Disorders in Gender Diverse Youth: Guidance for Primary Care Providers Gender diverse youth are at increased risk for body image concerns and disordered eating. It is important that primary care providers be able to address these concerns using a gender-affirming approach. This webinar recording, from the National Center of Excellence for Eating Disorders, reviews how eating disorders may present in gender diverse youth and how best to provide care simultaneously for gender dysphoria and disordered eating. Health Disparities Among Black Gay Men at the Intersection of Race and Substance Use Disorders This recorded webinar, from the African American Behavioral Health Center of Excellence, examines the impact of health disparities at the intersection of substance use disorder (SUD) and race, among black gay men. Already bearing the burden of HIV, SUD can be devastating to a community already struggling to find resources. By bringing awareness to this subject, we can begin to shift attention to meet the needs of an oftentimes overlooked community. Public health departments, stakeholders, and community-based organizations have novel opportunities to engage specific populations with mechanisms that prioritize value and emphasize impact. This interactive presentation provides evidence-based research findings and rich discussion to raise awareness of this public health threat among Black gay men. Can We Talk? Issues in the Black Gay Community In this panel discussion, hosted by the African American Behavioral Health Center of Excellence, Dr. Lawrence Bryant and members of the Black LGBTQ+ community cover issues in the Black Gay Community including: HIV/AIDS, substance use disorder, mental health disparities, and other topics. Supporting the Workforce on Providing Affirming Services to LGBTQ+ People During this Office Hour, hosted by the National Family Support Technical Assistance Center, leaders learn important strategies for implementing organizational change efforts to improve services for LGBTQ+ youth and their families. This includes important considerations for policy implementation, supporting the workforce in adopting new practices, and providing essential supports to families of LGBTQ+ youth. Reframing Language in Behavioral Health Care: New Tools You Can Use Language is a powerful tool that shapes how we see the world and other people. The words we use matter, as they have the potential to be both empowering and harmful. This is especially true for words used to describe the experiences of people living with mental illness and substance use challenges. Dr. Moira O’Neil of the Framework Institute will open the webinar by providing an overview of the evidence behind the impact of language. Presenters will then introduce a combined language guide that outlines outdated language, updated language, and why these changes matter. The presentation will be followed by a panel discussion on how behavioral health care providers can use language to create a more inclusive and respectful environment for families, older adults, African Americans, and LGBTQ+ populations. This webinar is hosted in partnership with the National Family Support Technical Assistance Center, the African American Behavioral Health Center of Excellence, and the E4 Center of Excellence for Behavioral Health Disparities in Aging. The CoE LGBTQ+ BHE has complied a databse of resources on serving LGBTQ+ youth and families in systems. This database is being continuously updated. Please send any resources you’d like us to include to lgbtqequity@uconn.edu.
## https://lgbtqequity.org/learn/session-recordings/


Session Recordings [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://lgbtqequity.org/learn/session-recordings/)

> All sessions hosted by this Center of Excellence are recorded and housed in Innovations, our Learning Management System. Eligible sessions offer free continuing education credits (CECs), accredited by the Council on Social Work Education. To view a recording, please choose below from the CEC version or non-credit version, which provides a certificate of attendance. To view the list of upcoming live sessions, visit our Live Sessions page. The UConn School of Social Work is approved by the Connecticut Department of Public Health to provide continuing education credits (CECs) for social workers. The School is accredited by the Council on Social Work Education. The University of Connecticut is accredited by the New England Association of Schools and Colleges, Inc. through its Commission on Institutions of Higher Education. Sign up for an account or log in to the Innovations Learning Management System to view session recordings. FOUNDATIONAL TOPICS Presenters: Shelley L. Craig, PhD, RSW, LCSW (she/her) Ashley Austin, PhD, LCSW (she/her) AFFIRM Pro is an evidence-informed, multi-session, manualized coaching intervention aimed at enhancing professional capacity to affirm and support the positive mental health and well-being among LGBTQ+ individuals. The Center of Excellence on LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health Equity (CoE LGBTQ+ BHE) is offering Mental and Behavioral Health Organizations serving LGBTQ+ individuals the opportunity to become an Official AFFIRM Pro Site. This opportunity includes the 3-Day Virtual AFFIRM Pro Training, a Quality Learning Collaborative, and purveyor-led coaching sessions for all trained facilitators at your site. Join us to learn more about the AFFIRM Pro model’s components, the need for the population, and details on how to apply. Click here to download the AFFIRM Pro Flyer. Find the AFFIRM Pro webpage and download the application here. Presenters: Angela Weeks (she/her) Lyndsay Smith (she/her) As professionals providing care amidst anti-LGBTQ+ bias, racism, and other forms of discrimination, it’s crucial to develop self-care and stress management plans to safeguard our mental health and wellbeing. This webinar will provide strategies to combat feelings of fatigue, depression, anxiety, discouragement, and hopelessness that may arise from repeated exposures to LGBTQ+ biases and attacks. Participants are encouraged to bring their own self-care tools and strategies to share. Remember, just because Pride Month is over doesn’t mean we have to stop thinking about self-care for LGBTQ+ folks and allies. Join us as we explore these topics and more, and remember, self-care is not selfish—it’s essential! Presenters: Lyndsay Smith (she/her) Ezra Halstead (they/them, he/him) This webinar provides foundational knowledge about gender identity and gender expression, and how to best provide services for transgender and gender nonconforming individuals across the lifespan. Participants will learn concepts relating to gender identity and expression, as well as the process of transitioning, and respectful terms. Important terms that will be defined include but are not limited to: transgender, cisgender, nonbinary, intersex, and pronouns. Social, legal, and medical types of transition will be reviewed, as well as potential interpersonal/familial and systemic barriers to transition. Risk factors and behavioral health disparities for adults and children in this community will be reviewed, as well as best practices service providers can use to create a respectful and welcoming environment. Presenters: Lyndsay Smith (she/her) Jabari Lyles (he/him) This webinar enables behavioral health service providers to be more equipped to support, treat and advocate for people with diverse sexual orientations. Considering a general lack of LGBTQ+-affirming knowledge among healthcare providers, along with data and research which suggests LGBTQ+ people are at higher risk for poor health outcomes, this webinar offers institutions the skills they need to minimize gaps. Participants will define sexual orientation and explore related terms and concepts in human sexuality, become more intimately aware of the unique experiences of people who have diverse sexual orientations, learn specific behavioral health disparities, including risk and protective factors for people of various sexual orientations, and gain a toolkit of best practices for applying this knowledge in the field. Presenter: Angela Weeks (she/her) This webinar explores concepts around implicit and explicit bias that people who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, and other diverse sexual orientations and gender identities experience. The session also connects these biases with other systems of oppression, such as sexism and racism. During the session, examples of biases, as well as strategies to manage and intervene when biases are witnessed or experienced, are shared. The content is relevant to all age groups. ADVANCED TOPICS Presenters: Edward Alessi (he/him) Sarilee Kahn (she/her) Over the years, increasing numbers of LGBTQ+ people have fled to the United States seeking protection based on persecution of their sexual orientation or gender identity. However, upon arrival in the United States they contend with a number of stressors, including challenges meeting basic needs, navigating the asylum process, and dealing with structural barriers (e.g., stigma and discrimination, lack of access to healthcare). To assist LGBTQ+ asylum seekers in settlement, a clinical practice framework for working with this population is presented. Integrating concepts from complex trauma, minority stress and intersectionality, acculturation and integration, and resilience, the framework is intended to help LGBTQ+ asylum seekers manage traumatic stress, handle the demands of the asylum process, and contend with stress related to their multiple marginalized identities. Presenter: Skyler Jackson (he/him) Accumulating research suggests that multiple, interlocking forms of stigma-related stress (e.g., racism, homophobia, transphobia) drive and maintain behavioral health disparities among Black LGBTQ individuals. Despite this knowledge, most research and clinical interventions related to stigma-related stress focus on one type of stigma (e.g., racism) in isolation from others (e.g., homophobia, transphobia). Intersectionality provides a framework to help researchers and clinicians better understand the multi-dimensional experiences of Black LGBTQ people, but the application of intersectionality to such empirical and clinical efforts remains in its infancy. To address this gap, this webinar includes emerging efforts to better understand and intervene upon links between intersectional stigma and aspects of behavioral health (e.g., mental health, HIV risk) among Black LGBTQ individuals. Presenter: Dr. Gabe Miller (He/Him) This session will addressed the importance of supportive and protective environments for building trans health equity. This session covered (1) recent research on support (or the lack thereof) and trans health in the domains of the family, education, healthcare, and state-level policy, (2) provided application of the reviewed research for policy and practice, and (3) discussed the need for multifaceted and multilevel interventions aimed at creating supportive and protective environments for advancing trans health equity. Presenters: Matthew Malouf (he/him) Katharine Dalke (she/they) This webinar provides an overview of issues impacting individuals with intersex variations across the lifespan and provides guidance for service providers on how to work with individuals and families as they navigate systems of care. Participants will learn key facts about intersex variations as well as the history of intersex health care in the United States. Important terms that will be defined include, but are not limited to: intersex, differences of sex development, endosex, and shared decision making. Physical health, behavioral health, and quality of life outcomes will be reviewed, and will include a discussion of best practices to support and center individuals with intersex variations in their care throughout the lifespan. Additionally, an exploration of advocacy, family and community needs and resources, and representation in pop culture will enrich participants’ understanding of these individuals’ experiences. Presenter: Angela Weeks (she/her) Recent federal guidance urges behavioral health agencies serving young people to offer LGBTQ+ relevant programing to address the dire disparities the population experiences. During this webinar, 5 newly developed programs and resources are presented for LGBTQ+ youth and their families which could help behavioral health providers meet the call for increased programing. This presentation includes program information for two direct clinical interventions for families, one group intervention for families, one group intervention for LGBTQ+ youth and young adults, and one adapted family finding intervention focused on expanding networks of support for LGBTQ+ young people in foster care. The webinar also features several available resources for behavioral health providers to share with LGBTQ+ people and their families. Presenters: Dr. Shanéa Thomas (he/she/Dr.) The Sexual and Gender Diversity Learning Community (SGDLC) (created by respected clinicians Michael Vigorito and Sean Lare) was cultivated by the University of Maryland Prevention Research Center to address the lack of competency within the mental health field and is committed to the better-quality care and treatment of LGBTQ+ people. Within this session, the team will discuss the creation of their Individual and Organizational Assessments, Training Workshop, Clinical Consultations, Technical Assistance Sessions, and Simulated Client Experience as multilevel interventions used to address the needs of both individual practitioners and organizational level administrators to better serve their clients. This session is for any participant interested in learning more about how to enrich their practice by recognizing the intersections of LGBTQ+ identity, mental health and research through evidence-based interventions. Presenter: Cec Hardacker (she/her) Older LGBTQ+ adults’ lives can be rich and fulfilling as they age. This webinar explains the necessity of cultural humility as well as how to demonstrate gender affirming and culturally safe skills appropriate for working with LGBTQ+ older adults. This presentation concludes by exploring the many ways health care professionals can support their patients by learning evidence-based best practices, applying cultural humility frameworks, and using a trauma-informed lens. Presenter: Angela Weeks (she/her) This session provides guidance on what types of school policies and strategies can be implemented to help promote and build an affirming environment for LGBTQ+ young people. Attendees will also learn strategies for responding when a student discloses their sexual orientation and/or gender identity and expression (SOGIE). Presenters: Dr. Beth Maclin Dr. Sarah Peitzmeier This webinar was aimed at practitioners and researchers interested in supporting transgender and gender expansive survivors of intimate partner violence (IPV). Newly published research examines subdomains of transphobia-driven IPV, a unique form of IPV that leverages systemic transphobia in the context of intimate and romantic relationships. In this webinar, the sub-domains were defined alongside quotes from survivors to ground these concepts in lived experiences. Further, participants learned about existing transphobia-driven IPV screening tools and which are best suited to capture all aspects of this phenomenon. Presenters: John Pachankis (he/him) Skyler Jackson (he/him) Audrey Harkness (she/her) During this webinar, presenters discuss the distinction between the “closet” and the stigma of concealment. They introduce “The Development Model of the Closet,” discuss the eventual experiences of the closet, the stressors that take place after one has become aware of their sexual orientation, and the time-based context of disclosure. The session also presents implications for clinical practice among behavioral health providers. Presenters: Darquita Fletcher (she/her) Lauren Wethers Coggins (she/her) Leah Love (she/her) Lawrence Bryant (he/him) This 90-minute webinar and panel discusses culturally adapting behavioral health practices for Black and African American LGBTQ+ people. The first 30 minutes details a systematic review findings on what types of evidence-based culturally responsive programs are effective in behavioral health services, followed by a 60-minute discussion from providers who have adapted their practices to meet the needs of their Black and African American LGBTQ+ clients. Presenter: Karen Fredriksen Goldsen (she/her) Increasing diversity is a defining feature of the dramatic aging of the world-wide population. Research demonstrates that midlife and older adults from marginalized populations are at elevated risk of health disparities, include behavioral health risks. The National Institutes of Health and The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention identify the lack of research on sexual orientation as one of the most pronounced gaps in health disparities research. In this webinar, Dr. Fredriksen Goldsen will discuss findings from the first federally-funded and largest longitudinal study, Aging with Pride: The National Health, Aging and Sexuality/Gender Study (NHAS), addressing the health and well-being of midlife and older lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ+) adults. Based on the Health Equity Promotion Model, Dr. Fredriksen Goldsen will examine behavioral health disparities in these populations as well as explore the interplay between risk and protective factors associated with mental health and substance use among LGBTQ+ midlife and older adults. Presenter: Lyndsay Smith (she/her) New studies have shown a sharp increase in anti-LGBTQ+ hate crimes in schools over the past few years, more than quadrupling for those in areas where legislation has been enacted that targets the community. These developments have caused an alarming decline in mental health for many LGBTQ+ students and has left many school professionals unsure of how to best support them. In this webinar, we will discuss the impact of anti-LGBTQ+ efforts on student mental health, as well as new research and tools you can use for transforming your school environment. Using both a macro and micro lens, we’ll guide you through the process of creating an LGBTQ+ Support Action Plan for your school with strategies you can start implementing now to make a difference in improving the mental wellbeing of their LGBTQ+ students. Presenter: Dr. Meg Paceley & Dr. Melissa Santos This presentation shares an overview of the state of gender affirming care bans, and threats to ban gender affirming care, across the U.S. Presenters discussed the harms that come from prohibiting access to gender affirming care for transgender youth and identify strategies for mental and behavioral health practitioners to support transgender youth and their caregivers across sociopolitical contexts. Presenters: Judith Glassgold (she/her) Laura Kuper (they/them) Scott Leibowitz (he/him) This session provides an overview of the new guidance from the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) entitled, Moving Beyond Change Efforts: Evidence and Action to Support and Affirm LGBTQ+ Youth. This webinar will explore general influences, both positive and negative, on LGBTQ+ behavioral health, clarify SOGI change efforts and how they differ from SOGI exploration and affirmation, and discuss helpful interventions for LGBTQ+ children and youth in clinical settings. Presenters: Gio Iacono (he/him) Cindy Pan (she/her) In an attempt to build the repertoire of empirically supported interventions for sexual and gender diverse young people (SGDY), an LGBTQ+ affirmative mindfulness-based group intervention (called Tuned In!) was collaboratively developed with and pilot-tested with SGDY. The study found high engagement, satisfaction, and significant improvements in mental health markers. Participants will learn about providing trauma-informed, culturally responsive support to SGDY and practical strategies from the Tuned In! study to enhance social support and self-advocacy in group work with SGDY. Presenter: Dr. Shelley Craig (She/Her) Social media and online engagement have complex but significant impacts on the wellbeing of LGBTQ+ youth. Centering a trauma- informed and affirmative approach, this presentation will describe the benefits and challenges of these technologies on the mental health of these adolescents and early adults and highlights emerging research that centers the role of social media on the development of resilience. Specific strategies for the assessment and integration of social media use into practice will be offered. Presenters: Justine Larson (she/her) Christopher Bellonci (he/him) This webinar is aimed at practitioners interested in building knowledge to serve transgender and gender diverse children and youth. The use of Gender Dysphoria diagnosis in children and adolescents was analyzed, and participants learned how to evaluate and treat a child presenting with gender dysphoria. A parent shared her journey with her transgender child, including lessons learned and implications for clinical practice and work with families. Participants also learned the importance of evaluating whether the gender dysphoria is being exacerbated in the context of family rejection and how best to support that child/adolescent and family. Presenters: Ashley Austin (she/her) Ryan Papciak (he/him) This webinar is aimed at practitioners interested in building knowledge to serve transgender and gender diverse clients. The first part of the webinar introduced Gender Dysphoria as the experience and as the DSM diagnosis with a focus on exploring both the benefits and limitations of the diagnostic criteria. There was discussion on emerging literature on the experiences of gender dysphoria among trans and gender diverse adults, as well as the different manifestations of dysphoric feelings over time and across clients. Furthermore, attendees learned about how gender dysphoria can negatively impact clients’ psychological, interpersonal, and occupational functioning. Clinical strategies for supporting clients with gender dysphoria were explored. Finally, the importance of gender affirming experiences was discussed. One of the co-presenters shared his lived experiences of gender dysphoria and gender affirming interventions with particular attention to the implications for clinical practice. Presenter: Lawrence Bryant (he/him) Research shows that LGBTQ+ populations of all ages disproportionately experience disparities and poorer health outcomes compared to their heterosexual and cisgender counterparts. These disparities are particularly salient among Black gay men. For example, according to CDC data, while HIV has declined among White gay men, it has increased significantly among Black gay men. In fact, 1 in 2 Black gay men will contract HIV within their lifetime. This statistic is startling and is an immediate call to action to help mitigate this trend. The goal of this webinar is to provide a closer look at the issues and trends that impact this population; including substance use disorders, HIV/AIDS, stigma, race, and homophobia. This webinar will further explore evidence-based strategies that are effective in working with this population. Presenters: John Pachankis (he/him) Chirstopher Bellonci (he/him) All sexual minorities experience the closet – a period in which they recognize their sexual identity but have not disclosed it to significant others – and the majority of the world’s sexual minority population is likely closeted. This talk positions the closet as a central experience of sexual minority development that can exert a powerful and potentially lasting impact on mental health. The talk will present a developmental model of the closet’s influence on mental health, delineating the structural influences that shape one’s experience of the closet; the stressors that take place after one has become aware of their sexual orientation but has not yet disclosed it, which often takes place during the developmentally sensitive period of adolescence; and potential lifespan-persistent mental health effects of the closet, even among those who do ultimately come out. The talk will conclude with a discussion on implications for structural and clinical interventions. Presenters: Kevin Keegan (he/him) Johanna Miller (she/her) Organizations with historic or current resistance to working with LGBTQ+ individuals present an additional challenge to implementing an LGBTQ+ affirming approach. Over the past six years, Catholic Charities of Baltimore has met this challenge and has enacted a range of practices that support LGBTQ+ clients and staff, ultimately allowing for enhanced provision of services. A brief overview of Catholic Charities journey toward greater LGBTQ+ inclusion will be offered and strategies to address common barriers will be discussed. Presenters: Christopher Stults (he/him) Jillian R. Scheer (they/them) Danielle S. Berke (she/her) Intimate partner violence (IPV) is prevalent in gender and sexual minority populations, including among lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ+) people. IPV is also associated with numerous mental and physical health problems in these populations. Despite this, few resources and treatments exist that are culturally appropriate for and specifically tailored to the needs of these groups. In this session, three expert panelists (Dr. Danielle Berke, Dr. Jillian Scheer, and Dr. Christopher Stults) will present on their respective programs of research related to IPV in LGBTQ+ populations, followed by a lively discussion and question/answer session with audience participants. Presenters: Jama Shelton (they/them) Jordan Blair Woods (she/her) Lisa Fortuna (she/her) Bianca Wilson (she/her) This webinar maps current research on the needs, issues and structures facing LGBTQ+ youth in the child welfare system, as well as the possibilities and challenges for future research, improved care and evidence-based advocacy to ensure LGBTQ+ youth have the material and emotional care to survive and thrive in natal or new family settings. This work necessarily engages anti-racist and intersectional perspectives, as well as historical contextualization, across race, gender, sexuality, and poverty in understanding the child welfare system, its role and functioning, and its impacts, including the historical and present undue surveillance, control and separation of children and families – particularly Black families. Panelists will discuss inequities affecting LGBTQ+ youth within child welfare systems, key advocacy issues, barriers, and interventions for improving outcomes Presenter: Edward Alessi (he/him) Empirical research has consistently demonstrated the negative mental health consequences of minority stress among LGBTQ+ populations; however, there is little understanding of how minority stress should be addressed in the actual clinical situation. This webinar discusses the impacts of minority stress on the mental health of LGBTQ+ people as well as treatment issues relating to LGBTQ+ mental health. LGBTQ+ affirmative and trauma-informed clinical practices are also shared. Presenters: Toni Donnelly (she/her) Linda Mitchell (she/her) Vida Khavar (she/her) This webinar provides behavioral health providers with best practices on working with families of LGBTQ+ youth. Many families struggle at first to embrace their LGBTQ+ child‘s identities, and need support and tools after their child comes out to them. Early intervention is essential in preventing harm to the family unit and to the mental and physical wellbeing of the youth. This webinar features three speakers with a wealth of professional and personal experience as parents. Linda Mitchell will share her own journey as a parent of a lesbian girl and as someone who has dedicated her career to working with other families around building their knowledge and skills to support their LGBTQ+ youth. Toni Donnelly is a parent with lived experience in systems of care, and also has a background in helping systems partner with families around system reform. Lastly, Vida Khavar will join to discuss the Youth Acceptance Project: a clinical intervention for families of LGBTQ+ youth. Presenter: Jeremy T. Goldbach (he/him) After 10 years of research, Proud & Empowered has shown efficacy to support its use in school and community settings. The 10-week small group intervention uses a mix of didactic learning strategies to support LGBTQ+ youth as they navigate their family, peer, school and other community environments. This presentation will offer an overview of the intervention, and allow for Q&A. Presenters: Angela Weeks (she/her) Leah Love (she/her) This presentation dives into what it means to have culturally responsive services and key strategies for working with families of LGBTQ+ young people. Findings from a recent systematic review on cultural adaptations, as well as important insights from SAMHSA’s guide on Adapting Evidence-Based Practices for Under-Resourced Populations, are shared. Presenters also discuss case examples from a recent project called the Youth Acceptance Project, which focused on supporting families of LGBTQ+ young people involved in, or at risk to entering, foster care. Presenter: America Islas (she/ella) This webinar give context to the intersectionality of race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, and gender identity faced by Latinx LGBTQ+ communities. The presenter explores Latinx culture while examining how LGBTQ+ identities and mental health are perceived within the culture. The presenter also shares knowledge to assist with transitioning from rejecting behaviors to affirming, culturally responsive best practices when providing mental health care to the Latinx LGBTQ+ community. Presenters: Alyssa Fenix (she/her) Finn Gratton (they/them) Conversations around LGBTQ+ inclusive spaces are becoming increasingly critical when supporting neurodiverse populations and individuals with intellectual and emotional disabilities. Historically, the communities have been addressed separately with the assumption of little overlap or impact, yet a growing body of research demonstrates the need for LGBTQ+ inclusive practices that are accessible and affirming for individuals with disabilities. This webinar examines the intersections of gender, sexuality, and disability in school, clinical, and community based settings, and identify ways to make spaces and programs accessible and affirming for neurodiverse youth and young adults. Presenter: Mills Smith-Millman (they/them) Youth spend most of their times in schools, and most youth who receive mental health services receive these services at school. LGBTQIA+ youth are at higher risk for depression, anxiety, and suicide than their cisgender and/or heterosexual peers. Thus, it is critical for school-based mental health providers to understand the impact of sexuality and gender identity on mental health and be equipped with the necessary tools to support these students. Participants in this webinar will learn more about the increased risk of mental health difficulties in LGBTQIA+ populations as well as their experiences of safety and discrimination in school. Participants will also learn how to use affirming evidence-based practices to treat LGTQIA+ youth with mental health difficulties, including how to create cope ahead plans for big moments like coming out to family members or friends. Presenters: Caitlin Ryan (she/her) Antonia Barba (she/her) LGBTQ+ children and youth are at high risk for trauma that is both related to and unrelated to their identities. This webinar will discuss the integration of Trauma-Focused Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (TF-CBT), the most widely used trauma treatment model for children and youth worldwide, and the Family Acceptance Project (FAP), the first research and family support model to reduce risk and promote well-being for LGBTQ+ children and youth. Presenter: Angela Weeks (she/her) This session provides information on safety planning with LGBTQ+ youth. Safety planning is a protective measure that can be implemented with youth in situations that may lead to distress and crisis — from disclosing their identities to engaging in gender-segregated activities. This session covers: (1) assessment of available supports for LGBTQ+ youth; (2) anticipation of challenges LBGTQ+ youth may face in distressing situations; and (3) tools that can help youth cope through difficult times. Presenter: Lawrence Bryant (he/him) Crystal meth has had a devastating effect on the gay community, once a drug that was considered popular only among White gay men, methamphetamine use has been shown to transcend racial and ethnic boundaries. Already bearing the burden of HIV, meth use can be devastating to a community already struggling to find resources. Because of the connection that exists between meth use, HIV risk in the Black gay community, and the sexual inhibitions engendered with methamphetamine use, this drug presents a formidable public health challenge. This webinar will explore issues and trends related to meth use among gay men, with a focus on Black gay men. This workshop will also provide evidenced-based research findings and rich discussions to raise awareness of this formidable public health threat facing Black gay men. Presenter: Michael Vigorito (he/him) The interaction of substance use and sexual health within the LGBTQ+ community is complex. Segments of the LGBTQ+ community experience higher rates of mental health and substance use disorders (SUD) or engage in ChemSex behaviors, all of which can contribute to higher rates of sexually transmitted infections. Part one in a two-part series, this workshop discusses the reasons people use drugs and how that relates to the LGBQ+ experience. The presenter will also review LGBTQ+ health disparities and affirmative practices in SUD treatment, which lays the foundation for Part Two of this workshop on sexual health conversations. Presenter: Michael Vigorito (he/him) Providing affirmative care has been shown to improve outcomes for LGBTQ+ clients in mental health and substance use disorder treatment. An underappreciated component of affirmative care is facilitating conversations about sexual health that positively engages LGBTQ+ clients in the treatment process. Segments of the LGBTQ+ community experience higher rates of mental health and substance use disorders or engage in ChemSex behaviors, all of which can contribute to higher rates of sexually transmitted infections. Behavioral health providers have an ethic responsibility to facilitate sexual health conversations and address the connection between mental health, sexual health and substance use disorders. This interactive workshop is designed to improve treatment outcomes and client engagement by integrating sexual health into mental health and substance use disorder treatment. Presenters: Rajeev Ramchand (he/him) Lynsay Ayer (she/her) Suicide is among the top ten leading causes of death in the United States, with over 40,000 Americans ending their lives each year. After a brief discussion of data limitations on sexual and gender identity, this presentation provides an overview of the recent data on suicide rates and risk among lesbian, gay, and bisexual (LGB) adults. It also discusses how risk of suicide among LGB adults differs by gender, race/ethnicity, and age. Following the discussion of epidemiologic trends, the presentation reviews evidence-based approaches for reducing suicide risk, ranging from public policies to clinical practices. It ends with a discussion on clinical and research priorities to strengthen suicide prevention for LGB adults. Presenter: Angela Weeks (she/her) This presentation provides helpful tips on working with families and other caregivers of LGBTQ+ youth. Some families may struggle to understand their child or youth’s sexual orientation or gender identity. Some may fear rejection from their own communities or fear what the future may hold for their family. During this session, attendees will hear about the importance of family support, strategies for helping families process their feelings, and promising programs that are making strides towards creating evidence-based programs for families of LGBTQ+ youth. Presenter: Dr. Carlos Pavão This webinar will provide an overview of the lived experiences of LGBTQ+ immigrant communities in the United States. Historically, the United States has been a beacon for immigrants. The untold narratives of LGBTQ+ immigrants are least known about. There are an estimated 904,000 LGBTQ+ immigrants in the United States, which means that more than one in ten LGBTQ adults are immigrants. Using an Indigenized framework this webinar will share knowledge to assist providers think through culturally responsive best practices when providing services to LGBTQ+ immigrants. This webinar will also share information on how to support LGBTQ+ immigrants in their own communities, as well as ways to address the barriers they face in accessing and receiving care. Presenter: Michael Dentato (he/him) LGBTQ+ individuals are at heightened risk for alcohol and substance use across the lifespan as a result of myriad stressors which can result in a variety of health and mental health concerns. While the Screening, Brief Intervention, and Referral to Treatment (SBIRT) model has been widely used among adults as a universal screening assessment for alcohol and/or substance use, there is a growing body of literature which examines its use among youth, older adults, and special populations (e.g., LGBTQ+). The SBIRT model includes a screening process to assess for risk of alcohol and/or substance use disorders via validated tools, followed by a brief intervention based on the tenets of motivational interviewing, which may or may not result in the need for a referral to care. This presentation will begin with some background on current statistics and trends related to alcohol and substance use among various segments of the LGBTQ+ community, followed by an introduction to SBIRT and each stage of the model, and conclude with a discussion about the impact of using universal screening tools and methods across a variety of practice settings. Presenters: Jill Levenson (she/her) Shelley Craig (she/her) Using SAMHSA’s guidelines for trauma-informed care (TIC), this 90-minute training describes how to apply TIC when working with LGBTQ+ populations. Research describing the prevalence and impact of adverse childhood experiences (ACEs) will be summarized. Participants will learn about the effects of childhood trauma on psychosocial development and family functioning. Participants will be introduced to SAMHSA’s guiding principles of TIC. Mental health practitioners and social service professionals will learn to view client presenting problems through the lens of trauma, as well as practical skills to implement trauma-informed service delivery across a variety of roles when working with LGBTQ+ clients. Presenter: Dr. Ashley Austin Transgender and nonbinary (TNB) individuals experience disparate rates of rejection, discrimination, marginalization, and interpersonal violence. Gender dysphoria coupled with barriers to gender affirmation serve as additional sources of suffering for many TNB individuals. As a result of these experiences, many TNB youth and adults can benefit from trauma responsive interventions. Eye Movement Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR) is a highly recommended trauma treatment with a host of empirical evidence supporting its efficacy for PTSD and related mental health needs. Effective application of EMDR with TNB clients requires that clinicians understand the unique sources of stress and trauma as well as pathways toward healing for TNB clients. This webinar will explore specific clinical considerations for effective and affirmative application of EMDR with TNB clients. Presenter: Skyler Jackson (he/him) Many global cultures rely on strict binary definitions of identity to categorize their population into distinct, dichotomized groups (e.g., gay vs. straight, man vs. woman, Black vs. White). However, these blunt binary categories do not reflect human diversity. Many social groups—including many sexual and gender minorities—identify in ways that do not fit into such rigid categories. For example, people identifying with a bi+ identity (e.g., bisexual, pansexual, sexually fluid) or a gender nonbinary identity (e.g., enby, genderqueer, Two Spirit) defy, blur, or transgress conventional binary classification. Although mental health providers are increasingly trained to intervene upon anti-LGBTQ+ related stress, few clinicians are equipped to intervene upon the unique—and often hidden—identity-related challenges faced by individuals who defy binaries. Towards that goal, this webinar introduces a new and powerful cross-population framework—border identity stress and resilience theory—which highlights the theorized psychosocial challenges (and potential strengths) associated with holding an identity that defies binary categorization. Drawing upon existing (but previously isolated) scholarship on bi+, nonbinary, bicultural, and Multiracial individuals, the presentation explores how border identity stress and resilience theory can advance our understanding of the mental health of LGBTQ+ people—and all who break binaries. Clinical implications and applications are also discussed. Presenter: Dr. Veronica Timbers (She/Her) During this webinar, clinicians received an overview of current research about rural queer experiences with specific attention given to how this information informs engagement, assessment, and practice. This was the first session in a series. Presenters: Dr. Veronica Timbers (She/Her) Tayon Swafford (He/Him) Dr. Darren Cosgrove (He/They) Melanie Childers (She/Her) Dianne Piggott (She/Her) A panel of experts in the field with backgrounds in research, clinical practice, healthcare, and faith communities in rural areas will share experiences and offer practical tips for behavioral health providers to integrate into their practices. In a second offering, rural providers from across the country were invited to engage in an interactive discussion around shared experiences and issues related to supporting LGBTQIA+ individuals living in rural areas. May resources were shared with participants during the session. May 2024, several Centers of Excellence facilitated discussions about equity across specific communities. The series explored equitable terminology that promotes social justice for populations where language has often been used to shame individuals, patronize, enforce prejudice, or limit visibility. Each session provided updated language that helps advance equity within their population of focus. Recordings: Promoting Equity when Speaking About, and with, Families Promoting Equity for Older Adult Populations Promoting Equity for LGBTQIA2S+ Populations Promoting Equity for Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Populations *Promoting Equity for Black and African American Populations was part of the series and was unrecorded due to a technical issue. ASK OUR EXPERTS & PANEL DISCUSSIONS! The Latine LGBTQ+ community encompasses a diverse range of identities, experiences, and cultures. Concurrently, Latine LGBTQ+ individuals often face intersectional discrimination related to their ethnic, gender, and sexual identities, resulting in added stressors and increased risks of mental health challenges, including substance use, depression, and suicide. This panel discussed disparities among Latine LGBTQ+ individuals and emphasized the importance of adopting a multifaceted approach that acknowledges the intersections of identity, culture, and social determinants of health. Experts in the field discussed perspectives and approaches on how providers and community-based organizations can implement culturally sensitive and responsive care practices that are attuned to the strengths, contexts, and experiences of Latine LGBTQ+ communities and seek to advance behavioral health equity. Presenters: Jabari Lyles (he/him) Lyndsay Smith (she/her) Ezra Halstead (they/them, he/him) Christopher Bellonci (he/him) This Ask Our Experts recording provided a follow-up opportunity for questions and discussion about the Sexual Orientation & Behavioral Health 101 and Gender Identity, Expression & Behavioral Health 101 webinars. Presenters: Christopher Bellonci (he/him) Justine Larson (she/her) Ashley Austin (she/her) Ryan Papciak (he/him) This Ask Our Experts session provided a follow-up opportunity for questions and discussion about the Gender Dysphoria Diagnosis & Clinical Considerations for Children & Youth and Gender Dysphoria in Adults: Moving Beyond Diagnosis & Toward Affirmative Practice webinars. Presenters: Jill Levenson (she/her) Shelley Craig (she/her) This Ask Our Experts session provided a follow-up opportunity for questions and discussion about the Translating Trauma-informed Care Principles into Practice with LGBTQ+ Clients webinar. Presenters: Christopher Bellonci (he/him) Ashley Austin (she/her) Ryan Papciak (he/him) As of the the date this session was originally held, thirty-three states had introduced more than 100 bills targeting the rights of trans people, the majority of which would affect children and youth. These bills, which range from barring trans students from participating in sports to criminalizing gender-affirming medical care, are detrimental to the health and well-being of young trans people. This session provides an opportunity to connect with clinical and legal experts from across the country on supporting the mental health of trans youth affected by this legislation. For a list of resources and peer-reviewed articles clinicians can use to better meet the needs young trans people, please visit our Supporting Trans Youth page. Presenters: Michael Dentato (he/him) Lawrence Bryant (he/him) Ryan Papciak (he/him) This Ask Our Experts session features an interactive panel discussion on substance use disorders that impact members of the LGBTQ+ community. Panelists bring a diverse array of backgrounds ranging from lived experiences with substance use and diverse SOGIE to providing services within the LGBTQ+ community and conducting research on LGBTQ+ populations. Panelists will discuss substance use disorders across various LGBTQ+ populations, as well as the intersections of race, gender identity, sexual orientation, and socioeconomic status, among other areas. Presenters: Christopher Bellonci (he/him) Ashley Austin (she/her) Angela Weeks (she/her) Holidays, weddings, funerals and other family gatherings can be challenging times for LGBTQ+ people. It is a time when they may traditionally get together and engage in family and religious rituals. For LGBTQ+ folk whose families are not affirming, it may mean making a choice between being with their family of origin, being with a family of choice (friends and loved ones), or being alone. This Ask Our Experts session features an interactive panel discussion about some of these challenges and will debut the launch of a newly developed tool to help clients plan for a safe, happy and successful visit with their family. Presenters: Coley Alston (they/them) Lawrence Bryant (he/him) Jesi Harris (any pronouns) Leah Love (she/her) During this session, panelists discussed the gaps in behavioral health services that exist for Black and African American LGBTQ+ people and what providers can do to fill those gaps. The panelists shared personal and professional experiences and offered practical tips for behavioral health providers to integrate into their practices. Presenters: Ashley Austin (she/her) Ryan Papciak (he/him) Martha Fairbanks Perry (she/her) Beginning with a discussion of gender dysphoria, this panel addresses impacts of unrealistic expectations in the media, relevance to transgender people living with Autism Spectrum Disorder, and difficulty finding a provider that understands the complex intersections of gender dysphoria and disordered eating. The panel concludes with implications for the field, including recommendations on how to identify and address disordered eating and gender dysphoria with clients, as well as practical resources. Presenters: Donna Hines (she/her) Jan Willis (she/her) Justine Larson (she/her) This recorded panel discussion features three parents of LGBTQ+ children who discuss their own journeys and share their expertise with the audience. Attendees hear important information that will build understanding about what a family may be experiencing after their child discloses that they are LGBTQ+. Panelists also discuss the importance of support from others with lived experience, including strategies that Family Peer Supports should consider when working with families of LGBTQ+ children and youth. This session was hosted in partnership with the National Family Support Technical Assistance Center. Presenters: Matthew Malouf (he/him) Katharine Dalke (she/they) Sean Saifa Wall (he/him) Marissa Adams (she/her) This panel explores the concept of intersectionality within intersex populations. Through moderated and audience questions, our panelists speak to the experiences and needs of intersex individuals with diverse racial, ethnic, religious, sexual orientation, and gender backgrounds and diverse roles within the intersex community (e.g. as a healthcare consumer, an advocate, an ally, and a healthcare provider). Intersections of privilege are also explored including ways to validate individuals’ unique experiences and to empower them to use their voices to advocate for themselves and others. Presenters: Ashley Austin (she/her) Michael P. Dentato (he/him) Jeremy T. Goldbach (he/him) Eli Edwards (they/them) During this panel discussion, presenters will discuss recent efforts to adapt and create prevention and screening resources to serve LGBTQ+ young people. Presenters will include a first person perspective from a trans person in recovery; implementation of SBIRT in high school settings; newly drafted guidelines for using SBIRT with transgender and nonbinary populations; and important findings about what drives harmful substance use among LGBTQ+ adolescents. Presenters: Angélique “Angel” Gravely (she/her) Megan Crofford-Hotz (she/they) Malik Muhammed (he/him) Terri Clark (she/her) This panel provides an opportunity for participants to learn about unique experiences of bi+ individuals. Through moderated and audience questions, panelists will discuss health disparities exacerbated by monosexism and bi+ erasure, as well as how age, race, and gender intersect with bi+ identities. Panelists will share first-person perspectives of navigating mental health care as bi+ individuals, what helps, what harms, and what providers need to know. Panelists will share resources and best practices for supporting bi+ individuals, as well as examples of bi visibility across multiple settings.