



# [navy.mil](navy.mil): ~6 pages censored since 1/20/25

## [cnrk.cnic.navy.mil](cnrk.cnic.navy.mil): ~6 pages censored since 1/20/25

### [CFAY Celebrates Pride Month](https://cnrk.cnic.navy.mil/News/Article/3086557/cfay-celebrates-pride-month/)


> June is nationally recognized as Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer (LGBTQ) Pride Month. It is celebrated annually to honor the 1969 Stonewall riots, during which patrons and supporters of the Stonewall Inn in New York City rallied to combat the rampant harassment and persecution of LGBTQ Americans by the police. Those individualsâ€™ courageous stand against inequality is what sparked the beginning of a movement that would eventually outlaw discriminatory laws and practices against the LGBTQ community. June is nationally recognized as Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer (LGBTQ) Pride Month. It is celebrated annually to honor the 1969 Stonewall riots, during which patrons and supporters of the Stonewall Inn in New York City rallied to combat the rampant harassment and persecution of LGBTQ Americans by the police. Those individuals’ courageous stand against inequality is what sparked the beginning of a movement that would eventually outlaw discriminatory laws and practices against the LGBTQ community. The purpose of the commemorative month is to not only recognize the impact that LGBTQ individuals have had on history, but also to celebrate the freedom to be oneself. Great strides have been made regarding the acceptance of LGBTQ individuals over the last several decades, and the U.S. military has also adapted recently to foster an accepting community for all of our comrades-in-arms. In 1994, the military enacted Defense Directive 1304.26, also known as ‘Don’t ask, don’t tell.’ Coined and signed by then President Bill Clinton, who claimed that while it was “not a perfect solution,” it was a “major step forward,” toward allowing gay military members to serve when they had previously been excluded. In theory, it lifted the ban on homosexual service that had been instituted during World War II, but in effect, it continued a statutory ban. DADT was lambasted by numerous gay rights activists for forcing military personnel into secrecy. As a result of the policy, thousands of service members were discharged due to their sexual orientation or preferences over the 17 years the policy was in place. U.S. Navy Capt. Rich Jarrett, Commander, Fleet Activities Yokosuka (CFAY), and an openly gay member of the LGBTQ community, whose initial days of service were spent under DADT, remembered the difficulty of serving during that time and the opportunities it created when it was finally repealed. “Just before the repeal, it was becoming increasingly difficult to achieve any sense of balance between work and personal life,” Jarrett recalled. “I nearly resigned my commission due to my inability to serve honestly.” Growing up in Charleston, a small city in West Virginia, Jarrett’s sense of adventure and desire to broaden his horizons propelled him to join the Navy in 1992, shortly before DADT was put into effect. Graduating from the U.S. Naval Academy as an Ensign, Jarrett’s journey has brought him to many locations, but none more important than a chance meeting in Boston, while he was stationed in Newport, RI, where he met his husband, Dann, a constant source of strength and partnership as well as an active member of the military spouse community But throughout the course of those early days of service, Jarrett found difficulty in navigating the politics that forced him to walk a fine line between being an officer in the Navy and being his true self. A toll that wore on him and Dann. “For the first half of my career, the only difference was the complete separation between my professional life as a Sailor and my personal life off-duty,” admits Jarrett. “But since 2012 [the year after the repeal of DADT], I've been able to integrate those two parts of my life and I think I've become a much better Sailor and leader as a result.” By 2008, when DADT had been active for 15 years, over 12,000 officers had been discharged from the military for refusing to hide their homosexuality. Despite members of the LGBTQ community leaving the military, Jarrett persevered and found a rhythm conducive to success. “I think my journey as an LGBTQ person is not dissimilar from the journey of other Sailors,” posits Jarrett. “I've spent many months at sea on deployment, sometimes during periods of conflict, and stood the watch day and night, ready to respond against our adversaries.” Finally, after nearly two decades of discrimination, secrecy, and struggle, the LGBTQ community was met with a break on September 20, 2011, when President Barack Obama’s bill for repealing DADT was implemented. At the time, Obama had praised the repeal saying that, “it is time to recognize that sacrifice, valor and integrity are no more defined by sexual orientation than they are by race or gender, religion or creed.” After the repeal of DADT, the military was transformed – it became an environment much like the one President Obama imagined – individuals, regardless of their sexual orientation, were now able to serve without fear of reprisal and given the same fair treatment as their heterosexual counterparts. Jarrett remembers the joy and pride associated with the repeal - “'[the repeal of] don't ask, don't tell' has allowed me to continue my service in the Navy.” With Dann at his side, Jarrett has since found opportunities ranging from several tours at sea including command at sea, staff assignments in the Pentagon, and finally to Yokosuka, Japan, where he assumed the role of CFAY’s commanding officer in 2019. While the population of LGBTQ service members is still low, approximately 6.0% according to a survey in 2015, LGBTQ community service member pioneers have led the way for those serving after them to discover themselves and their place in the military. The repeal also paved the way for open celebration of the LGBTQ community, through events like Pride Month and allowed service members like Mass Communication Specialist 1st Class Reymundo Villegas, to enlist. Villegas, currently assigned to U.S. Seventh Fleet, enlisted in 2017 after DADT had been repealed, allowing him to enter the Navy as an openly gay man. Villegas, a native of Port Lavaca, Texas, grew up struggling with how to embrace his role in the LGBTQ community. These struggles manifested during puberty, when he learned to deepen his voice or seek out the company of females in hopes of integrating better. “I am Hispanic, and my upbringing was very much influenced by my Mexican ethnic roots,” remembered Villegas. “But I was a little flamboyant as a child which caused me to constantly be made fun of by my male friends and classmates who I attended school with.” Villegas explained that his first attempt to come out was at age 15, watching television with his mother, with whom he shared nearly everything, was unsuccessful—a story many like him share. While some figures in his personal life were less than supportive, Villegas is grateful for the inspiration leaders like Jarrett provide. “I was excited to learn that Capt. Jarrett, an openly gay leader, was the commander at CFAY,” Villegas said. “Leaders like him paved the way for this generation currently serving and the ones who will follow.” Today, Pride Month celebrations are commonplace in the military. They include parades, picnics, parties, workshops, symposia, and concerts, and LGBTQ Pride Month events attract millions of participants around the world. Memorials are also held during this month for those members of the community who have been lost to hate crimes, or HIV/AIDS. Villegas, grateful for the opportunities that he has been given, could only express the importance of inclusiveness saying, “Representation truly matters.” But what does Pride Month and all the history associated with the LGBTQ community mean to CFAY’s commanding officer? “Pride Month is a time for both celebration and reflection,” Jarrett said. “It is a great opportunity to gather together with friends and the community to share stories of progress, as well as uplift others who may still be on a journey in their experience as an LGBTQ person.” On June 24th, hundreds of Sailors onboard CFAY marched in celebration of inclusiveness and equality during the annual Pride Month parade. Celebrations like these are demonstrative of how pioneers like Jarrett and others have shaped the Navy to create a culture of acceptance and pride in one’s identity. “As a senior LGBTQ officer, I recognize that there is probably some amount of spotlight on my representation of the community,” said Jarrett. “However, I feel like every officer should conduct themselves as if they were in the spotlight and my role is to provide the best possible leadership that I can muster for all of the Sailors, family members, and civilians who I have the privilege of working with at CFAY.” For more than 75 years, CFAY has provided, maintained, and operated base facilities and services in support of the U.S. 7th Fleet’s forward deployed naval forces, tenant commands, and thousands of military and civilian personnel and their families.
### [Pride Month: It’s Hard to Be What You Don’t See. Why LGBTQ Visibility Matters.](https://cnrk.cnic.navy.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=85&ModuleId=67000&Article=3073048)


> Three out of the five Naval Legal Service Command (NLSC) judge advocates in Bahrain openly identify as part of the LGBTQ community. Why is that remarkable? Because for the first time in their careers, they are in the majority. Add in additional queer-identifying attorneys and service members aboard the installation, and you will find a thriving LGBTQ community in Bahrain. And that is something to celebrate this Pride month. “There are so many of us here,” says Legal Assistance Attorney Lt. Nic Walker, “that it really puts into perspective how far we have come since Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell was repealed.” Walker continues, “At times, I carry an assumption that people can still be prejudiced, though thankfully I have not experienced that in my career thus far. As I look to successful JAG Corps leaders who identify the same way I do, I’ve become more comfortable being my authentic self, in and out of work. I appreciate the path of acceptance they’ve paved for all of us and I am motivated to do the same.” One of those visible JAG Corps leaders is Capt. Christopher Williams, commanding officer of Defense Service Office North, who recently visited his command’s branch office in Bahrain and met with local JAG Corps personnel. “These junior officers represent the hope of so many who served in silence for fear of investigation and discharge,” says Williams. “As someone who spent the first half of his Navy career under Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell, it made me incredibly proud to see them living fully authentic lives while also making vital contributions to the readiness of our operating forces in the U.S. Naval Forces Central Command area of responsibility. Our team in Bahrain is a powerful reminder that cultivating an environment of dignity and respect allows our people to bring their best to the fight, and that’s ultimately what we’re here to do.” However, that didn’t always come easy to Walker. “Early in my career, I found myself speaking very deliberately, using gender-neutral pronouns to discuss my partner and avoiding certain topics about my personal life,” he says. “Now, conversations flow more naturally as I’m able to speak honestly without having to hide. Lifting that mental barrier has allowed me to feel more accepted, to form deeper bonds with my colleagues, and to devote more energy and concentration to work, rather than wasting cognitive effort hiding who I am.” Officer-in-Charge at Region Legal Service Office (RLSO) Europe, Africa Central, detachment Bahrain, Lt. Cmdr. Alvir Sadhwani, began the process of coming out while on active duty in 2013, two years after the repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell. “I told my family and friends back home – and, to my surprise, received the support and acceptance I had hoped for,” Sadhwani says. “Work was the next step. One day, my commanding officer, executive officer, and I were discussing an underway opportunity I was selected for. When asked if I had any questions, without context or a smooth transition, I blurted out, ‘I’m gay.’ I can’t help but laugh thinking about how scattered I must have come across. Their immediate acceptance, in my mind, reflected the sentiment of the larger JAG Corps.” Sadhwani continues, “During the underway, I decided to maintain a straight persona to avoid making anyone uncomfortable, including myself. Coincidentally, I had a very vocally homophobic bunkmate. Over the next eight months, I ignored the anti-gay statements and deflected any notion that I was part of this community. My bunkmate was a friend and a shipmate – I should have challenged his beliefs. It’s easy to judge a faceless community and so much harder to hate up close.” Reflecting on that experience, Sadhwani notes the importance of visibility in the LGBTQ community. “Prior to coming out, I had an openly gay Indian law professor who simply by being himself made me feel I could do the same,” he says. “He didn’t know the impact he had on me. Looking back, had I been more open about my own sexuality during that underway, even if I wasn’t able change the beliefs of my bunkmate, I could have potentially eased the path for struggling LGBTQ junior Sailors. Now, the idea of being transparently authentic is something I value and strive toward.” That authenticity is different for each person – the LGBTQ journey is not linear. I use she/her pronouns, but identify as masculine of center. I don’t identify as a lesbian, but I do identify as queer. My identity has changed and may continue changing – and that’s okay. What is important is that I can live authentically both in and out of the workplace. That said, living authentically doesn’t always come easy to me. The military is a difficult place to be gender non-conforming because so many aspects of service fall within a gender binary. With customs and courtesies that utilize the gender specific “Sir” or “Ma’am,” to uniform and grooming standards, there is little room to exist outside the binary. I have to balance a hairstyle that feels authentic to me with ensuring it remains within female hair regulations. I am often called “Sir,” and, in female restrooms, I am sometimes asked if I am lost. Twice, while on base and in uniform, people have looked at me and actually run out of the restroom. These moments burden me to justify my existence in these spaces, something I do not owe anyone. I have never experienced these types of prejudices or microaggressions from people who know me. Those attitudes and assumptions come from those at a distance. As Sadhwani says, “It is harder to hate up close.” Despite the challenges and uncomfortable moments I face because of my gender presentation, I would change nothing about my identity other than understanding it at a younger age. Growing up, I did not see examples of people presenting along the gender spectrum. It is so hard to be what you don’t see. It took until my second year of law school, when I was 27 years old, to have the confidence to wear a suit instead of a dress to a formal event. I was 30 before I faded my hair. It was euphoric to finally understand what makes me feel comfortable and confident. I owe this euphoria to fellow law students I watched succeed professionally while being their authentic selves. I now want to be that person for others. The struggle I face being gender non-conforming is amplified for our nonbinary shipmates – those who do not identify with either gender and utilize they/them pronouns. They do not yet have the ability to exist fully authentically within the military. While there is no official ban on being nonbinary, there is also no official recognition that nonbinary Sailors exist or guidance on how they should adhere to gendered policies. And for our transgender shipmates, a transition is even more challenging within a binary system. While there is more work to do, this Pride month we reflect on how far we’ve come since the repeal of Don't Ask, Don’t Tell. Without the repeal, there would be no visibility of the LGBTQ community here in Bahrain. Instead, Lt. Morgan McGill, who currently is stationed at RLSO Southeast and is joining the Bahrain legal community later this summer, can rest assured she will be fully accepted. “I was initially apprehensive about my orders to Bahrain as I was unsure how my sexuality would be perceived,” she says. “When I found out there was a strong LGBTQ community, I felt comfort knowing I am joining an accepting JAG Corps community with strong leadership and mentorship.” An accepting JAG Corps community is exactly what we are celebrating this Pride month – from the leaders who gave Walker the confidence to be his authentic self in the workplace; to Sadhwani’s commanding officer and executive officer, who immediately accepted him; to Williams, who continues to pave a way for the younger generation to serve openly; to my mentors, who encouraged me to speak about my experiences in this article. We continue to strive toward a more inclusive workforce where all our Sailors can bring their authentic selves to the fight – we will be a stronger Navy for it. Pride Month: It’s Hard to Be What You Don’t See. Why LGBTQ Visibility Matters. 27 June 2022
### [Pride Month: LGBTQ Life in Japan](https://cnrk.cnic.navy.mil/News/Article/3056627/pride-month-lgbtq-life-in-japan/)


> JAG Corps members Lt. j.g. Annalise Bonner and Lt. Akshay Jakatdar open up about their personal experiences as members of the LGBTQ community in Japan. For both of us – two judge advocates serving at the Region Legal Service Office Western Pacific headquarters office – living in Yokosuka, Japan has been a whirlwind experience. Japan is a beautiful, fascinating country that blends tradition and technology. As COVID-19 restrictions have started easing, we have begun enjoying a wide range of activities, from visiting shrines and temples, to cheering on local baseball teams, to riding the fast, clean, and easily accessible public transportation en route to cities near and far. One of us is a married female LGBTQ officer (Lt. j.g. Bonner) and one is a single male LGBTQ officer (Lt. Jakatdar). We both have had mixed experiences forging a supportive community on base and integrating into broader LGBTQ life in Japan. The language barrier initially proved challenging, and, since we are located on the largest forward-deployed base in the Navy, we find that, just as new friendships are formed, old friends depart on long deployments or return to the U.S. Also, same-sex marriage is not recognized in Japan, though a majority of the Japanese public does support it. However, several local governments have started legalizing and recognizing same-sex civil partnerships. And although anti-LGBTQ hate crimes are rare, we sometimes encounter antiquated attitudes and discriminatory practices, such as hotels failing to offer double-occupancy rooms to guests of the same gender, certain clubs and bars denying access by gender, and dating app profiles that exclude from the person’s preference a particular race or nationality. But, despite challenges adjusting to LGBTQ life in Japan, we are enjoying our time here immensely. We recently attended Tokyo Rainbow Pride with our significant others and friends. We weren’t sure what to expect, and we were pleasantly surprised to encounter many stalls promoting Japanese companies, human rights groups, artists, and food vendors. It was an incredible experience, and we felt supported and included. In addition, the Yokosuka Navy installation held its first Pride event this past year, where a small number of LGBTQ service members and supportive family and friends marched along a predetermined route, culminating in a well-attended festival on base. We also have benefited from the groundwork laid by LGBTQ service members who previously completed tours in Japan. For example, we are part of a well-established, unofficial Yokosuka LGBTQ Facebook group for officers and some civilians, and its members routinely plan activities like brunch, film viewings, and getaway trips. There are multiple U.S. military bases throughout Japan, and we have forged connections with personnel stationed throughout the country, whom we visit from time to time. It is a tight-knit, welcoming community. We both will be in Japan for at least another year, and we anticipate our appreciation for life in Japan and our integration into the larger LGBTQ community will grow. We see signs posted on Yokosuka streets and in shopping malls, calling for people to join Japanese-led LGBTQ action groups. These local, grassroots actions may soon result in wider recognition of same-sex partnerships. As COVID-19 restrictions are lifted, we eagerly anticipate more opportunities to travel and experience the culture, food, museums, temples, and natural beauty of Japan, while also continuing to expand the footprint of the Yokosuka LGBTQ community. If any JAG Corps members are interested in a particular billet located in Japan, they should not allow the – both real and perceived – differences between Western and Japanese LGBTQ life dissuade them. In our experiences, there are plenty of friendly and welcoming locals eager to share their beautiful country, regardless of any differences. And, as language translation smart phone apps become easier to use and more effective, language is not the barrier it once was. If you have questions about living and working in Japan, please do not hesitate to reach out to us, via JAG Corps channels, at any time. We look forward to welcoming you to Japan!
## [www.navair.navy.mil](www.navair.navy.mil): ~6 pages censored since 1/20/25

### [Navy commander receives top award for LGBTQ+ advocacy](https://www.navair.navy.mil/news/Navy-commander-receives-top-award-LGBTQ-advocacy/Thu-10202022-1853)


> Navy commander receives top award for LGBTQ+ advocacy Cmdr. Emily Shilling received the 2022 LGBTQ+ Corporate Advocate of the Year Outie Award from Out & Equal, a global organization working exclusively on LGBTQ+ workplace equality, at the annual Workplace Summit Oct. 20 in Las Vegas. The organization recognized Shilling for her efforts advocating for the LGBTQ+ community and working to improve the Navy’s inclusion efforts. “At a time when the rights of the LGBTQ+ community are at risk, workplace leaders have an important role in safeguarding our community,” said Erin Uritus, CEO of Out & Equal. “We are grateful for Commander Shilling’s exemplary leadership in creating inclusive workplaces where everyone belongs.” Shilling is the Naval mission planning system military deputy program manager for the Strike Planning and Execution Office (PMA-281) at Patuxent River and is also a member of NAVAIR’s Diversity Action Team. She works with transgender personnel, senior leadership, Congress and the Defense Health Agency to provide mentorship, advocate for inclusive military service, improve access to medical care, and create a safe work environment. “With SPARTA, a transgender military advocacy organization, MMAA [Modern Military Association of America], and my fellow service members, we are advocating and helping the military better understand our stories, our needs, and what unique experiences we bring to the fight,” Shilling said. “Above all we are showing that trans and gender non-conforming people cannot only serve in the military but are thriving in their service.” Shilling is one of thousands of transgender identifying active duty and reserve military members currently serving in the U.S. Armed Forces. Shilling and her fellow service members advocate for inclusive service by always upholding our core values, honor, courage, and commitment, she said. Shilling received a bachelor’s degree in aerospace engineering from the University of Colorado and was wing as a naval aviator in 2007. She has flown EA-6B, EA-18G and F/A-18 E/F aircraft and completed deployments in Iraq and Afghanistan where she conducted 60 combat missions operating from USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN-72). In 2015, Shilling graduated from the U.S. Naval Test Pilot School and also received a master’s degree from the Naval Postgraduate School. She then served as a project officer for Air Test and Evaluation Squadron (VX) 23 at Patuxent River. In her current role, Shilling manages the information, tools and decision aids needed to rapidly and accurately plan aircraft, weapon and sensor missions.
### [Special agent Lee Russ shares insights, life lessons at NAVAIR’s LGBTQ+A Pride Month event](https://www.navair.navy.mil/news/Special-agent-Lee-Russ-shares-insights-life-lessons-NAVAIRs-LGBTQA-Pride-Month-event/Thu)


> Special agent Lee Russ shares insights, life lessons at NAVAIR’s LGBTQ+A Pride Month event “I always had the desire to serve and serve something bigger, larger than myself,” said special agent Russ Lee, executive director, Office of Special Investigations (OSI), Office of Special Projects and security director, Department of the Air Force Special Access Program, as the featured guest speaker at NAVAIR’s Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer + Allies (LGBTQ+A) diversity action team’s (DAT) national Pride Month event June 17. The Department of Defense’s Pride Month theme this year was “Pride in all who serve – a place for all.” “It [the theme] embodies the spirt of unity and acceptance across the department and all services,” said Roy Harris, director of NAVAIR’s Sustainment Group and an executive champion of the LGBTQ+A DAT. “The ability to deliver warfighting capabilities and complete the mission is not determined by sexual orientation or gender identity. We all come together from a variety of backgrounds, experiences and thoughts, bringing our talents and expertise to deliver the capabilities the warfighter needs to perform the mission.” One of our NAVAIR core values is Win with Inclusion and Respect,” along with “Starting with the Fleet” and “Changing the Game.” Winning with inclusion and respect means treating teammates with dignity and respect – always. Russ served in the Air Force from 1997 to 2006 as both an enlisted communicator and an investigator in the Air Force’s Office of Special Investigation. He separated from active duty in 2006 during “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,” which was the official U.S. policy on military service of non-heterosexual until its repeal in 2011. “When I joined the Air Force, I served for about nine years and truly loved it,” Russ said. “I intended on retiring from the service. It was at that point where I had a scare with ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell,’ when I thought I was going to be investigated. I quickly realized I might not be able to serve a full 20 years. I separated from active duty, because I could have served for 19 or 20 years and been discharged at the very last moment with no benefits. We all have opportunities to serve in different ways. I was immediately hired back as a civilian. I have no regrets. “ A career special agent with the OSI, Russ has directed and led law enforcement and counterintelligence investigations and operations at every Air Force level. In 2022, he was promoted to the Senior Executive Service and serves as the director of OSI’s Office of Special Projects. “Today, we celebrate diversity and inclusivity within our ranks, acknowledging the invaluable contributions the LGBTQ+ bring to the strength and resilience of our Navy,” he said. “As we gather here, united by our dedication in serving our country and our shared experiences as members and allies of the LGBTQ+ community, I am reminded of the profound importance of standing together, supporting one another and embracing our differences as strengths that make us stronger as both individuals and a collective joint force.” Russ acknowledged prejudice and ignorance still exists within the armed forces and in society as a whole. “It’s up to us to stand up against hate, bigotry and injustice and ensure that all members of our community are treated with respect, dignity and the equality that they deserve,” he said. “The journey towards equality and inclusivity has not been easy; it’s been marked by significant challenges and obstacles that have tested our resolve and our resilience. From the days of ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ to the ongoing fight against discrimination and prejudice, we’ve faced numerous barriers.” Despite those challenges and obstacles, Russ said the nation has made tremendous progress. “The repeal of discriminatory policies, the implementation of protective measures and the growing acceptance of LGBTQ+ individuals within our military are all testament to our collective efforts and determination,” he said. Toward the end of his remarks, Russ asked the audience to look to the future and recommit themselves to the values that define us as individuals and as a community. “Let us continue to raise our voices, share our stories and advocate for change so that future generations of LGBTQ+ service members and civilians can serve with pride and without fear of discrimination,” he said. “Together, we can create a department that is truly representative of the diverse tapestry of identities that make up our great nation.” DATs support NAVAIR’s efforts to build high performing and creative teams where all employees are valued, respected and have an equal opportunity to succeed. DATs seek to remove barriers and provide an open forum to share ideas and learn about different cultures and heritages. For more information on NAVAIR’s commitment to equal opportunity employment, visit EEO | NAVAIR (navy.mil). Information on NAVAIR’s LGBTQ+A DAT is also available online.
## [](www.navsea.navy.mil): ~6 pages censored since 1/20/25

### [PRIDE ERG helps to foster inclusivity, support through persistence, de](https://www.navsea.navy.mil/Media/News/Article-View/Article/3798139/pride-erg-helps-to-foster-inclusivity-support-through-persistence-dedication/)


> BREMERTON, Wash. – The term "Pride" used by the LGBTQ+ community has its roots in the Stonewall riots of 1969, a pivotal event that marked the beginning of the modern LGBTQ+ rights movement. While the PSNS & IMF PRIDE Employee Resource Group didn't begin with a landmark event like Stonewall, its journey has been one of persistence and dedication. The group's efforts reflect the ongoing commitment to fostering inclusivity and support within the shipyard community. During the 2000s, under the "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" policy, sexual orientation was not explicitly protected from discrimination at PSNS & IMF. Despite this, around 2009, a group of dedicated LGBTQ+ employees began meeting outside of work to create a sense of community and support. Their determination and resilience laid the foundation for a more inclusive environment, even in the absence of an antidiscrimination policy at the time. Through informal channels, the group participated in Kitsap Pride festivals, AIDS Walk Kitsap and also raised funds for the Command’s Combined Federal Campaign and donated books on LGBTQ+ individuals in the workplace to the Command Library. "We participated in these activities to contribute to the shipyard and the community, and also to make it known that LGBTQ+ employees are an integral part of the workforce here at the shipyard,” said Marcie Mathis, quality analyst, Code 200Q. Following the repeal of "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" in September 2011, the group was hopeful that there would be a positive shift in the shipyard climate to support PRIDE as an official Employee Resource Group (ERG). The first PRIDE ERG charter was submitted in October 2011, under the dedicated leadership of Marcie Mathis and Jonny Cornelison. After a period of consideration, the charter was approved in 2013. Since then, PRIDE has been an official ERG. Since its inception, PRIDE ERG meetings have generally seen a small but dedicated group of regular attendees. Over the past year, however, attendance has grown to an average of around 25 people, reflecting a positive shift in engagement and support. “Changes and progress have come, and we’re on a positive path forward. PRIDE is the only ERG that meets during lunch hours, allowing members to attend without needing supervisor approval,” said Wes HansonSmith, supervisor, Code 2310. “This approach ensures that everyone can participate and contribute while maintaining their privacy, as they don't have to account for their whereabouts to supervisors.” Some in the LGBTQ+ community at PSNS still face obstacles, such as not feeling safe being open about their identities with supervisors or coworkers. To respect this, PRIDE ERG uses Blind CCs for announcements, ensuring privacy for those who need it. Despite these obstacles, the increasing attendance and ongoing efforts of PRIDE ERG highlight a growing culture of inclusion and support within the shipyard. This progress benefits the entire workforce by fostering a more diverse, accepting, and productive environment for all employees. The ERG is also working on several initiatives, including addressing and educating about negative behaviors that impact LGBTQ+ employees, promoting respectful and inclusive language, and organizing an LGBTQ+ Ally Seminar at Command University. The seminar will aim to educate attendees on how to support their LGBTQ+ colleagues and create a more inclusive workplace. PRIDE ERG leaders are optimistic that increased awareness will lead to greater inclusivity and a stronger sense of community within the shipyard. “I think just knowing our group exists is a huge thing for our members,” said Kendra Schaff, industrial engineer, Code 100TO, Command Transformation Office. “We hope that as we continue to support the community and educate others, we can demonstrate that respect for LGBTQ+ individuals at PSNS is integral to the 'Respect Every Individual' Command Guiding Principle. Even if you're not part of the LGBTQ+ community, you likely have friends, family members, or acquaintances who are. Supporting the community and our coworkers is always appreciated and helps create a more inclusive and understanding environment for everyone.”