



# [NCJFCJ: National Council of Juvenile and Family Court Judges](ncjfcj.org): ~1 pages censored since 1/20/25

## [Pride Justice Resource Center](https://pjrc.ncjfcj.org/resource-center/)


> Explore, Inform, Learn Resource Center Showing results : Filter results : Advancing Pretrial Policy & Research Keywords: Lived Experience; Secure Facilities This brief article is a profile of Tye Perez, a non-binary person of color whose lived experience includes incarceration in jail before conviction and time in prison. Perez grew up in different states and cultures, experiencing urban and rural communities, and while they received support and love from many family members, they also faced societal exclusion and discrimination. All of these experiences now inform their work as an advocate for gender justice and an advisor to criminal legal system practitioners on respectful and humane treatment of justice-involved LGBTQ+ people. [Summary adapted from resource.] Transgender Law Center Keywords: Best Practices; Healthcare; Transgender Youth; Resources for Providers Transgender Law Center recognizes that many health care providers are eager to provide a safe, welcoming treatment environment for members of the transgender community, yet may not have had the opportunity to access information about the needs and experiences of this marginalized population. With this barrier in mind, we have created this pamphlet to work in partnership with providers to improve quality of care and provider-patient outcomes. [Summary from resource.] American Bar Association; Lambda Legal M. Currey Cook; Cathren Cohen Keywords: Child Welfare; Civil Rights; Legal Advocacy; Out of Home Care; System Reform Despite the prevalence and experiences of LGBTQ youth in out-of-home care, the specific needs of LGBTQ youth have not been adequately addressed. As a result, systems themselves have been complicit in causing additional trauma and poor outcomes. Thankfully, the last 20 years have shown a slow but steady increasing recognition by professionals that their work necessarily involves working with LGBTQ youth and requires improvements in policy and practice. Some states have enacted specific laws protecting LGBTQ youth from discrimination and mandating supportive treatment. However, other states have taken harmful steps backwards, enacting “religious refusal” laws that permit child welfare providers to discriminate against LGBTQ youth based on their religious or moral beliefs. This article highlights the great strides that have been made to protect LGBTQ young people over the past few decades and points out areas where additional reform is necessary to protect LGBTQ young people and the adults they grow up to be. The Trevor Project Keywords: Mental Health; Research The Trevor Project’s 2023 U.S. National Survey on the Mental Health of LGBTQ Young People amplifies the experiences of more than 28,000 LGBTQ young people ages 13 to 24 across the United States. This survey gives a voice to LGBTQ young people — at a time when their existence is unfairly at the center of national political debates and state legislatures have introduced and implemented a record number of anti-LGBTQ policies. Importantly, this research also points to ways we can all support the LGBTQ young people in our lives by highlighting protective factors like creating affirming spaces and respecting pronouns, as well as the topics about which LGBTQ young people wish those in their lives knew more. [Summary adapted from resource.] Healthy Native Youth Keywords: Data Collection; Policy; Tribal Communities; Two Spirit Youth A tool to successfully integrate the voice, expertise, and resources from all community members to improve the health and well-being of our 2SLGBTQ youth. American Institutes for Research Keywords: Best Practices; Child Welfare; Juvenile Justice This guide provides information for service providers, educators, allies, and community members who seek to support the health and well-being of children and youth who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, questioning, intersex, or two-spirit (LGBTQI2-S) and their families. This guide can support efforts to promote full and affirming inclusion of LGBTQI2-S youth and families in communities and provider settings (e.g., child welfare, juvenile justice, mental health, schools). The guide includes a section for organizations to add their endorsement electronically. Both the National Association of School Psychologists (NASP) and the National Association of Social Workers (NASW) have endorsed the guide. [Resource adapted from summary.] National Center for Lesbian Rights Keywords: Best Practices; Child Welfare; Gender Non-Conforming Youth; Out Of Home Care; Policy; Secure Facilities; Transgender Youth This guide offers group care facilities information and tools to provide transgender and gender non-conforming young people with appropriate and informed care. It also describes laws requiring facilities to protect these youth from harassment and abuse, to provide them with appropriate medical care, and to treat them fairly. Finally, it provides administrators with a model policy and comprehensive practice guidelines to help keep transgender and gender non-conforming youth safe, prevent programmatic disruptions, and promote respectful and supportive environments for all youth. [Summary adapted from resource.]