



# [neighborworks.org](neighborworks.org): ~5 pages censored since 1/20/25

## [CL232 Equal Access: LGBTQ+ Inclusion and Resident Leadership](https://www.neighborworks.org/course/cl232)


> Course Details CL232 Equal Access: LGBTQ+ Inclusion and Resident Leadership Resident leaders know equity, and they know their communities. Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and other people with diverse sexual and gender identities (LGBTQ+) are active members of every community. Resident leaders working with LGBTQ+ people should be aware of some of the unique experiences of these neighbors and partners. In general, LGBTQ+ people experience relatively high rates of housing and financial insecurity over their lives due to inconsistent legal protections, discrimination, and other systemic barriers. That reality is amplified for LGBTQ+ people with intersecting identities that have been historically blocked from societal opportunities—such as youth, seniors, and Black, Indigenous, Latinx, and Asian people. But LGBTQ+ people also have a rich history of resilience, strength, cultural diversity, and pride. Join us as we explore how to invest in LGBTQ+ resident leaders while being better allies ourselves. Course Length: 1/2 Days Tuition: $0.0 Course counts toward a professional certificate (PCP): No
## [CL232b Equal Access: LGBTQ+ Inclusion and Resident Leadership](https://www.neighborworks.org/course/cl232b)


> Course Details CL232b Equal Access: LGBTQ+ Inclusion and Resident Leadership The call for equity has never been louder. Yet we are far from the aspirational goal of equal access to essential resources and opportunities for people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and have other gender and sexual identities (LGBTQ+). That reality is amplified for LGBTQ+ people with intersecting identities that have been historically blocked from financial opportunities—such as youth, seniors, and Black, Indigenous, Latinx, and Asian people. In general, LGBTQ+ people experience relatively high rates of housing and financial insecurity over their lives due to inconsistent legal protections, discrimination, and other systemic barriers. Inclusive housing and community development programs are vital for the LGBTQ+ community’s well-being and long-term financial security. To meet the needs of the community, programs need to adapt their approaches in ways that are culturally responsive and relevant. In this 90-minute interactive webinar, you will gain valuable skills and resources, laying the groundwork for being more inclusive of the LGBTQ+ community. Find out what the nuanced needs of the community are. Become more culturally aware. Learn how to provide general and tailored programs and solutions, all while heeding the call for equity. Course Length: 1/2 Days Tuition: $0.0 Course counts toward a professional certificate (PCP): No
## [It's an important conversation': Course centers LGBTQ+ experience](https://www.neighborworks.org/blog/its-important-conversation-course-centers-lgbtq-experience)


> Paul McLaughlin, Homeownership Program Director at NeighborWorks Southern New Hampshire, says NeighborWorks America's training on LGBTQ+ inclusion sparked ideas. Even after completing the course, the ideas keep coming, from discussions about inclusive pronouns to contemplating a homebuyer education course with the LGBTQ+ population in mind. "Training like this should be for everybody," he says. In Oregon, NeighborWorks' training spurred an education instructor to add pronouns to his name when he teaches courses over Zoom. In Indiana, Brandi Burns, Intend Indianapolis' operations manager, says staff changed language from "husband or wife" to "spouse" on their emergency contact form after the course. She also updated her online profile to reflect her pronouns, "knowing that normalizing that is helpful." Christi Baker, who has taught the inclusion course several times, says other students talked about revising intake forms with more inclusive wording. "It's important to really think about using inclusive, open language," she says. McLaughlin says the course discussion was helpful, too. "It's important to be sensitive about who you're talking to. Often, you may not know who's in the room; that's even more of a reason to be sensitive." He points out that the LGBTQ+ acronym ends with a plus. "You can be an ally," he says. "You can be the plus." Creating a new course NeighborWorks offered "Equal Access: LGBTQ+ Inclusion in Housing and Community Development Programs" last year for the first time. It came about because Cormac Molloy, senior manager, Curriculum & Training, noticed something missing from courses related to issues in housing and community development: There wasn't one focused specifically on LGBTQ+ concerns. Other courses mentioned the topic, Molloy says. "But they didn't center queer people's experience. It's an important conversation." Molloy, who works on a number of courses involving REDI – Race, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion – became one of the architects of the course, which considers the lifecycle in housing and community development as it relates to LGBTQ+ people. LGBTQ+ youth, especially youth of color, are at higher risk of homelessness, the training points out. According to the National Network for Youth, those who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender or questioning have a 120% higher risk of experiencing homelessness in some form. Meanwhile, there's a homeownership gap for LGBTQ+ individuals among the nation's workforce. And older adults may more often face housing or financial insecurity or isolation. There are other needs to be considered, too, Molloy adds. The LGBTQ+ community may have different health concerns, an important consideration for housing that includes wrap-around services. "Even the arts may look different." And it's important for housing practitioners to understand trauma the community may have faced, individually and historically. Understanding intersectionality with race and gender is also key, as is knowing what protections are available in different states – and what protections are not. And it's important to serve the community intentionally. "A lot of great diversity, equity and inclusion work is being done, but to a large extent, the LGBTQ+ community is still not being lifted up as an audience to pay attention to," adds Baker. "How do we create cultural inclusion? We need to look at a range of ways to serve the community." She recommends housing developers get to know the needs in their local LGBTQ+ communities, particularly financial and housing needs. Molloy plans to offer the course at the February 2023 Virtual Training Institute (VTI). Meanwhile, he's examining courses centered on transforming communities to make sure they include groups that are too often overlooked. "If we're truly intentional about applying a REDI lens, we need to embed that lens in all of the relevant courses," he says. Don Trahan, Jr., NeighborWorks' senior director of REDI, agrees. "The network serves people of many diverse backgrounds and it's important that we're sensitive to that," he says. "At the same time, we want our housing practitioners to see their own lives and the lives of their communities reflected in our courses." At NeighborWorks itself, plans to advance REDI work include training more facilitators, and focusing on work in areas such as the strategy and structure of REDI, communication, engagement, all-staff training and policy review. "We are committed to making NeighborWorks a great place to work for all staff, prioritizing advancing equity and inclusion, internally and externally." Learn more about NeighorWorks America's training opportunities. Paul McLaughlin, Homeownership Program Director at NeighborWorks Southern New Hampshire, says NeighborWorks America's training on LGBTQ+ inclusion sparked ideas. Even after completing the course, the ideas keep coming, from discussions about inclusive pronouns to contemplating a homebuyer education course with the LGBTQ+ population in mind. "Training like this should be for everybody," he says.
## [ML016 Equal Access: LGBTQ+ Inclusion in Housing and Community Development Programs](https://www.neighborworks.org/course/ml016)


> Course Details ML016 Equal Access: LGBTQ+ Inclusion in Housing and Community Development Programs - Interactive Webinar Training The call for equity has never been louder. Yet we are far from the aspirational goal of equal access to essential resources and opportunities for people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and have other gender and sexual identities (LGBTQ+). That reality is amplified for LGBTQ+ people with intersecting identities that have been historically blocked from financial opportunities—such as youth, seniors, and Black, Indigenous, Latinx, and Asian people. In general, LGBTQ+ people experience relatively high rates of housing and financial insecurity over their lives due to inconsistent legal protections, discrimination, and other systemic barriers. Inclusive housing and community development programs are vital for the LGBTQ+ community’s well-being and long-term financial security. To meet the needs of the community, programs need to adapt their approaches in ways that are culturally responsive and relevant. In this 90-minute interactive webinar, you will gain valuable skills and resources, laying the groundwork for being more inclusive of the LGBTQ+ community. Find out what the nuanced needs of the community are. Become more culturally aware. Learn how to provide general and tailored programs and solutions, all while heeding the call for equity. The webinar training will last 90 minutes and include resource materials, check-and-reflect activities, interactive polling, and participant Q&A with the faculty. A quiz will open at the conclusion of the session which you must pass in order to obtain a certificate and credit toward continuing education hours. Participants can access the training site upon registration and begin looking at the available resources prior to the live online training session. This course provides 1.5 continuing education hours. Course Length: 1/4 Days Tuition: $115.0 Course counts toward a professional certificate (PCP): No
## [NeighborWorks America](https://www.neighborworks.org/instructor/cormac-molloy)


> TBD Courses CL232b Equal Access: LGBTQ+ Inclusion and Resident Leadership CL232a Equal Access: LGBTQ+ Inclusion and Resident Leadership CB212 Storytelling for Oral History, Community Building and Visioning