



# [National Institute of CorrectionsNIC](nicic.gov): ~28 pages censored since 1/20/25

## https://nicic.gov/weblink/20-years-advocating-lgbtq-youth-out-home-care-2018


20 Years of Advocating for LGBTQ Youth in Out-of-Home Care (2018) [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/weblink/20-years-advocating-lgbtq-youth-out-home-care-2018)

> Government-funded systems for youth in out-of-home care have laudable and important public policy goals. The juvenile justice system is designed to rehabilitate youth; child welfare is designed to ensure a safe, permanent home; and runaway and homeless youth systems are designed to provide secure, temporary shelter and helpful services. Some youth in care, however, have always been unofficial exceptions, left by the wayside with their needs unmet and system promises to serve all youth, regardless of who they are, unfulfilled. Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer or questioning (LGBTQ) youth have long been one of these exceptions. Thankfully, over the past 20 years, change has come for many of these youth in the broader world and in out-of-home care, but full inclusion in the promise of care and assistance still eludes far too many. This content has not been updated in more than 5 years. It may be outdated and links may no longer function. Please contact the NIC Helpdesk if you have any questions about this content or would like to report a broken link. 20 Years of Advocating for LGBTQ Youth in Out-of-Home Care (2018) Notice about external resources These links are being provided as a convenience and for informational purposes only; they do not constitute an endorsement or an approval by the National Institute of Corrections (NIC) of any of the products, services or opinions of the corporation or organization or individual. NIC bears no responsibility for the accuracy, legality or content of the external site or for that of subsequent links. Contact the external site for answers to questions regarding its content.
## https://nicic.gov/weblink/acs-office-lgbtq-child-and-family-well-being


ACS Office of LGBTQ Child and Family Well-Being [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/weblink/acs-office-lgbtq-child-and-family-well-being)

> ACS is committed to creating a safe and affirming environment where all young people can thrive, no matter their sexual orientation or gender-identity and expression. The ACS Office of LGBTQ Child and Family Well-Being raises awareness and helps make sure that all of our services are affirming of LGBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning) youth and families. ACS Office of LGBTQ Child and Family Well-Being Notice about external resources These links are being provided as a convenience and for informational purposes only; they do not constitute an endorsement or an approval by the National Institute of Corrections (NIC) of any of the products, services or opinions of the corporation or organization or individual. NIC bears no responsibility for the accuracy, legality or content of the external site or for that of subsequent links. Contact the external site for answers to questions regarding its content.
## https://nicic.gov/weblink/administration-childrens-services-lgbtq-support


Administration for Children's Services: LGBTQ Support [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/weblink/administration-childrens-services-lgbtq-support)

> ACS is committed to creating a safe and affirming environment where all young people can thrive, no matter their sexual orientation or gender-identity and expression. The ACS Office of LGBTQ Child and Family Well-Being raises awareness and helps make sure that all of our services are affirming of LGBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning) youth and families. Administration for Children's Services: LGBTQ Support Notice about external resources These links are being provided as a convenience and for informational purposes only; they do not constitute an endorsement or an approval by the National Institute of Corrections (NIC) of any of the products, services or opinions of the corporation or organization or individual. NIC bears no responsibility for the accuracy, legality or content of the external site or for that of subsequent links. Contact the external site for answers to questions regarding its content.
## https://nicic.gov/weblink/updated-lgbtq-friendly-survey-template-2022


An (updated) LGBTQ+ friendly survey template (2022) [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/weblink/updated-lgbtq-friendly-survey-template-2022)

> After the amazing feedback I (the author, Mei Ke) received on my original post “How to make an LGBTQ+ friendly survey,” I (the author, Mei Ke) realized that my critiques on a badly written questionnaire did not provide the full context of what an inclusive LGBTQ+ survey would look like. After further experience in diversity and data work, I (the author, Mei Ke) would make some changes and recommendations to create a fully functional survey template that is LGBTQ+ friendly. These recommendations come from my own experience as a queer and transgender person in the LGBTQ+ community, as well as from sources like GLADD’s Media Reference Guide. This content has not been updated in more than 5 years. It may be outdated and links may no longer function. Please contact the NIC Helpdesk if you have any questions about this content or would like to report a broken link. An (updated) LGBTQ+ friendly survey template (2022) Notice about external resources These links are being provided as a convenience and for informational purposes only; they do not constitute an endorsement or an approval by the National Institute of Corrections (NIC) of any of the products, services or opinions of the corporation or organization or individual. NIC bears no responsibility for the accuracy, legality or content of the external site or for that of subsequent links. Contact the external site for answers to questions regarding its content.
## https://nicic.gov/resources/nic-library/all-library-items/best-practices-creating-and-delivering-lgbtq-cultural


Best Practices in Creating and Delivering LGBTQ Cultural Competency Trainings for Health and Social Service Agencies [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/resources/nic-library/all-library-items/best-practices-creating-and-delivering-lgbtq-cultural)

> "The term [cultural competency training] has been used interchangeably with diversity education, cultural sensitivity training and multi-cultural workshops. Cultural competency is commonly understood as a set of congruent behaviors, knowledge, attitudes and policies that enable effective work in cross-cultural situations. Cultural competency training, therefore, aims to increase knowledge and skills to improve one’s ability to effectively interact with different cultural groups" (p. 5). This document explains how to effectively develop and deliver LGBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning) cultural competency training. While it is intended for health and social service agencies, it is equally applicable to correctional agencies. Sections of this document include: introduction; defining cultural competency training; goals of LGBTQ cultural competency training-goals vs. objectives; preparing for a training-six trainer skills; training components-core topics; pros and cons of the following training methods-lecture with PowerPoint slides, guest speaker(s)/ panel discussion, media, interactive participation, print materials and learning aids, and Web-based learning; training evaluation-Kirkpatrick Model (Pyramid) of Learning, and Evaluation Planning Chart; resources and examples; and evaluation appendix-Kirkpatrick's Model of Evaluation is detail, tips on evaluation, sample training fidelity list items, sample survey items, and demographics.
## https://nicic.gov/resources/nic-library/all-library-items/ensuring-access-mentoring-programs-lgbtq-youth


Ensuring Access to Mentoring Programs for LGBTQ Youth [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/resources/nic-library/all-library-items/ensuring-access-mentoring-programs-lgbtq-youth)

> "Youth mentoring programs, such as those of 4-H, Big Brothers Big Sisters and Boys and Girls Clubs of America, are an important strategy for supporting at-risk youth and preventing them from becoming entangled with the juvenile justice system. This white paper summarizes research showing that LGBTQ [lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning] youth would benefit from access to these programs and makes recommendations for youth mentoring programs and local, state, and federal governments to ensure that access" (p. 1). Four parts follow an executive summary: youth mentoring programs; research showing that LGBTQ youth would benefit from youth mentoring programs-at-risk LGBTQ youth and LGBTQ youth in the juvenile justice system; recommendations-six youth mentoring program policies and practices, LGBTQ-focused youth mentoring programs, requirements in youth mentoring grants, enforcing existing legal protections, and adopting new legal protections; and conclusion.
## https://nicic.gov/resources/nic-library/all-library-items/keeping-lgbtq-youth-safe-juvenile-justice-delinquency


Keeping LGBTQ Youth Safe in Juvenile Justice Delinquency Placements [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/resources/nic-library/all-library-items/keeping-lgbtq-youth-safe-juvenile-justice-delinquency)

> “Many young people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender or questioning their sexual orientation or gender identity (LGBTQ) and in the custody of juvenile justice and delinquency systems are unsafe in their placements and are not receiving appropriate services. Professionals working within these systems must ensure that LGBTQ young people are protected from harm and supported in their development” (p. 1). This publication provides a brief, but very good, explanation of how people working with LGBTQ youth should treat them. Professionals need to: acknowledge their existence; understand the factors contributing to disproportionate numbers of LGBTQ youth in the systems; adopt policies to improve the quality of care provided to LGBTQ youth; seek alternatives to detention of LGBTQ youth; seek out safe, affirming placements; protect the right of LGBTQ youth to safety; ensure freedom from unreasonably restrictive conditions of confinement; provide appropriate services; protect LGBTQ youth from sexual abuse; don’t assume LGBTQ youth are potential sex offenders; provide a sound classification system; and never unnecessarily isolate LGBTQ youth from the general population.
## https://nicic.gov/resources/nic-library/all-library-items/lgbtq-youth-and-sexual-abuse-information-mental-health


LGBTQ Youth and Sexual Abuse: Information for Mental Health Professionals [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/resources/nic-library/all-library-items/lgbtq-youth-and-sexual-abuse-information-mental-health)

> While this tip-sheet is intended for mental health practitioners, it provides invaluable information for anyone working with lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer or questioning (LGBTQ) youth. Sections of this brief cover: terms to know when working with LGBTQ youth; continuums of sex, gender, and sexual orientation chart; issues and concerns for LGBTQ youth related to sexual orientation and sexual abuse; issues and concerns for parents of LGBTQ youth related to sexual orientation and sexual abuse; common myths and stereotypes about LGBTQ youth and sexual abuse; providing counseling to LGBTQ youth-examine your own beliefs and experiences, be open-minded and avoid making assumptions, steps toward creating a welcoming and inclusive environment at your agency, steps you can take with co-workers and in direct work with clients, and steps toward confidentiality; and treating LGBTQ youth following sexual abuse.
## https://nicic.gov/resources/nic-library/all-library-items/lgbtq-youth-and-status-offenses-improving-system-responses


LGBTQ Youth and Status Offenses: Improving System Responses and Reducing Disproportionality [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/resources/nic-library/all-library-items/lgbtq-youth-and-status-offenses-improving-system-responses)

> The application of the “National Standards for the Care of Youth Charged with Status Offenses” (NIC accession no. 027712) is stressed. “The National Standards specifically call for all (LGBTQ) [Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual. Transgender, and Questioning] youth to “receive fair treatment, equal access to services, and respect and sensitivity from all professionals and other youth in court, agency, service, school and placement’” (p. 1).
## https://nicic.gov/resources/nic-library/webinars-broadcasts/lgbtq-youth-and-status-offenses-improving-system


LGBTQ Youth and Status Offenses: Improving System Responses and Reducing Disproportionality [Webinar] [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/resources/nic-library/webinars-broadcasts/lgbtq-youth-and-status-offenses-improving-system)

> “Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and questioning (LGBTQ) youth are twice as likely as other youth to be sent to a juvenile detention facility for committing “status offenses” such as truancy or running away from home. LGBTQ youth are also overrepresented in the juvenile justice system generally, and once in the system are more likely to be the target of abuse and violence, including at the hands of other youth. LGBTQ youth may also receive overly harsh punishments due to biased decision-making or misguided attempts to keep them “safe” through the use of unnecessary isolated housing. How can systems more appropriately serve youth who commit status offenses and are LGBTQ?” This webinar will explain how your agency can do this. - Topics covered include: why LGBT youth are particularly vulnerable; - zero tolerance policies and LGBT youth; - when safety nets and support systems fail; - the need for this training; - factors leading to juvenile justice system involvement; - common experiences in locked facilities; - sexual victimization; - isolation; - classification; - lack of understanding; - recommendations from the National Standards for the Care of Youth Charged with Status Offenses and LGBTQ youth; - principles for responding to status offenses; - avoiding or limiting court involvement; recommendations for LGBTQ youth; - helping LGBTQ youth avoid court involvement for status offenses; - and responding to LGBTQ youth who may have committed status offenses.
## https://nicic.gov/weblink/lgbtq-youth-color-school-prison-pipeline-freedom-liberation-and-resistance-2017


LGBTQ Youth of Color in the School-to-Prison Pipeline: Freedom, Liberation, and Resistance (2017) [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/weblink/lgbtq-youth-color-school-prison-pipeline-freedom-liberation-and-resistance-2017)

> Emergent research suggests Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ) youth experience increased discipline in school, as well as increased exposure to the criminal justice system outside of school. Additionally, much has been written in recent years about the school-to-prison pipeline’s (StPP) impact upon large numbers of youth of color in the United States. However, a large portion of the existing research regarding the StPP often presumes heterosexuality in dealing with student populations. Further, what research exists on queer and transgender youth in schools often fails to address race in any meaningful way, thus misleading people to assume that the problems facing LGBTQ youth are racially neutral in nature. This paper seeks to synthesize some of the systemic factors that propel school pushout and student criminalization, and impact intersectionally-marginalized student populations like LGBTQ youth of color, as well as pose some possible critical pedagogical interventions in resisting the criminalization of these students under an increased neoliberal governmentality. This content has not been updated in more than 5 years. It may be outdated and links may no longer function. Please contact the NIC Helpdesk if you have any questions about this content or would like to report a broken link. LGBTQ Youth of Color in the School-to-Prison Pipeline: Freedom, Liberation, and Resistance (2017) Notice about external resources These links are being provided as a convenience and for informational purposes only; they do not constitute an endorsement or an approval by the National Institute of Corrections (NIC) of any of the products, services or opinions of the corporation or organization or individual. NIC bears no responsibility for the accuracy, legality or content of the external site or for that of subsequent links. Contact the external site for answers to questions regarding its content.
## https://nicic.gov/resources/nic-library/all-library-items/lgbtq-youth-color-discipline-disparities-school-push-out


LGBTQ Youth of Color: Discipline Disparities, School Push-Out, and the School-to-Prison Pipeline [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/resources/nic-library/all-library-items/lgbtq-youth-color-discipline-disparities-school-push-out)

> This is an excellent report about an issue that is little known-the involvement of LGBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and questioning) youth of color in the juvenile justice system. Topics discussed include: LGBTQ youth of color and the school-to-prison pipeline (STPP); school push-out-the marginalization in school and/or forcing out of school of these youth before they graduate; LGBTQ youth of color report increased surveillance and policing; these youth report incidents of harsh school discipline and biased application of policies; these youth report being blamed for their own victimization; and the immense challenges LGBTQ youth of color have to contend with.
## https://nicic.gov/weblink/lambda-legal-how-law-protects-lgbtq-youth


Lambda Legal: How the Law Protects LGBTQ Youth [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/weblink/lambda-legal-how-law-protects-lgbtq-youth)

> The U.S. Constitution guarantees all people, including LGBTQ people, “equal protection of the laws.” State constitutions contain similar protections. This means that public schools can’t single out LGBTQ students for negative treatment just because school officials disapprove of being gay or feel uncomfortable around people whose gender identity or expression is different from theirs. When it comes to peer conflicts and abuse, courts have made clear that the federal Constitution prohibits public schools from taking bullying and harassment any less seriously just because the targets are LGBTQ. Lambda Legal: How the Law Protects LGBTQ Youth Notice about external resources These links are being provided as a convenience and for informational purposes only; they do not constitute an endorsement or an approval by the National Institute of Corrections (NIC) of any of the products, services or opinions of the corporation or organization or individual. NIC bears no responsibility for the accuracy, legality or content of the external site or for that of subsequent links. Contact the external site for answers to questions regarding its content.
## https://nicic.gov/weblink/library-congress-lgbtq-legal-resources-beginners-guide


Library of Congress: LGBTQ+ Legal Resources: A Beginner’s Guide [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/weblink/library-congress-lgbtq-legal-resources-beginners-guide)

> This Beginner’s Guide is intended to simplify this research process, and provide some helpful resources for those interested in the law surrounding gender identity and sexual orientation. While the legal issues surrounding gender identity and sexual orientation are frequently talked about as if they fall into a singular category, they involve multiple areas of law, including family law, employment law, immigration law, juvenile law, tax law, and health law, among many others. Thus, it can be difficult to find resources that touch on all or most of these areas. This Beginner’s Guide includes information about how to research legal issues that affect LGBTQ+ people.
## https://nicic.gov/resources/nic-library/web-items/locked-interactions-criminal-justice-and-child-welfare-systems


Locked In: Interactions with the Criminal Justice and Child Welfare Systems for LGBTQ Youth, YMSM, and YWSW Who Engage in Survival Sex [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/resources/nic-library/web-items/locked-interactions-criminal-justice-and-child-welfare-systems)

> This report focuses on LGBTQ [lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer or questioning] youth who become involved in the commercial sex market to meet basic survival needs, describing their experiences with law enforcement, the criminal justice system, and the child welfare system. Interviews with these youth reveal that over 70 percent had been arrested at least once, with many reporting frequent arrest for “quality-of-life” and misdemeanor crimes other than prostitution offenses. Youth described their experiences of being cycled in and out of the justice system as highly disruptive and generating far-reaching collateral consequences ranging from instability in the home and school to inability to pay fines and obtain lawful employment. This report is part of a larger three-year Urban Institute study of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer or questioning (LGBTQ) youth; young men who have sex with men (YMSM); and young women who have sex with women (YWSW) engaged in survival sex. Sections of this report cover: highlights; literature review; study goals and methodology; LGBTQ youth interactions with and perspectives of law enforcement-youth demographics, what type of interactions, whom do youth turn to when in trouble, and concluding thoughts; criminal justice system responses to LGBTQ youth, YMSMS, and YWSW-LGBTQ affirming policies and practices, the challenges the criminal justice system must face in addressing this population, what stakeholders need to better serve theses youth, and the role the criminal justice system must play for LGBTQ youth engaged in survival sex; child welfare stakeholder perspectives-how the child welfare system responds to these youth; and the role the child welfare system faces addressing this population; LGBTQ youth perspectives on child welfare; LGBTQ youths' experiences in the child welfare system, perspectives on these experiences, concluding thoughts; discussion and summary; policy and practice recommendations; and how these agencies can be improved according to young people. Locked In: Interactions with the Criminal Justice and Child Welfare Systems for LGBTQ Youth, YMSM, and YWSW Who Engage in Survival Sex Notice about external resources These links are being provided as a convenience and for informational purposes only; they do not constitute an endorsement or an approval by the National Institute of Corrections (NIC) of any of the products, services or opinions of the corporation or organization or individual. NIC bears no responsibility for the accuracy, legality or content of the external site or for that of subsequent links. Contact the external site for answers to questions regarding its content.
## https://nicic.gov/sources/national-council-crime-and-delinquency-nccd-oakland-ca


National Council on Crime and Delinquency (NCCD) (Oakland CA) [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/sources/national-council-crime-and-delinquency-nccd-oakland-ca)

> National Council on Crime and Delinquency (NCCD) (Oakland CA) It's About Time: Prevention and Intervention Services for Gang-Affiliated Girls “This NCCD Focus highlights the vulnerabilities and consequences of gang involvement for girls, the service needs of girls in gangs and girls at ri A Comparison of Risk Assessment Instruments in Juvenile Justice This study examined the validity, reliability, equity, and cost of nine juvenile justice risk assessment instruments. NCCD Compares Juvenile Justice Risk Assessment Instruments: A Summary of the OJJDP-Funded Study The results from a study of eight risk assessments used for determining which justice-involved youth are low-, moderate-, or high-risk for future d Cross Gender Supervision and Legal Liability [Webinar] "This webinar focuses on the legal liability of agencies and staff when engaging in cross gender supervision and searches of people in custody." To Practice Guide: Creating a Juvenile Justice LGBTQ Task Force "In an effort to adopt policies and/or establish community relationships so that LGBTQ [lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning] youth No Place for Youth: Girls in the Adult Justice System This report is necessary reading for anyone working with or concerned about girls who are incarcerated in adult correctional facilities.
## https://nicic.gov/authors/adela-c-licona


National Institute of Corrections [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/authors/adela-c-licona)

> Adela C. Licona Gender Nonconforming Youth: Discipline Disparities, School Push-Out, and the School-to-Prison Pipeline This report provides an excellent explanation of why some gender nonconforming youth end up involved with the juvenile justice system. LGBTQ Youth of Color: Discipline Disparities, School Push-Out, and the School-to-Prison Pipeline This is an excellent report about an issue that is little known-the involvement of LGBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and questioni
## https://nicic.gov/authors/lilly-yu


National Institute of Corrections [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/authors/lilly-yu)

> Lilly Yu Surviving the Streets of New York: Experiences of LGBTQ Youth, YMSM, and YWSW Engaged in Survival Sex This is "the first study to focus on lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer or questioning (LGBTQ) youth; young men who have sex with men ( Locked In: Interactions with the Criminal Justice and Child Welfare Systems for LGBTQ Youth, YMSM, and YWSW Who Engage in Survival Sex This report focuses on LGBTQ [lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer or questioning] youth who become involved in the commercial sex market Arts Infusion Initiative, 2010-15: Evaluation Report "In 2010, an ambitious model for social change emerged in Chicago that aimed to connect detained youth and those at risk for incarceration (“at-ris
## https://nicic.gov/authors/aisha-canfield


National Institute of Corrections [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/authors/aisha-canfield)

> Aisha Canfield Practice Guide: Creating a Juvenile Justice LGBTQ Task Force "In an effort to adopt policies and/or establish community relationships so that LGBTQ [lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning] youth "In an effort to adopt policies and/or establish community relationships so that LGBTQ [lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning] youth
## https://nicic.gov/tags/lgbti


National Institute of Corrections [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/tags/lgbti)

> LGBTI The Legal Rights of Young People in State Custody: What Child Welfare and Juvenile Justice Professionals Need to Know When Working with LGBT Youth Standards of Care for the Health of Transsexual, Transgender, and Gender Nonconforming People The Unfair Criminalization of Gay and Transgender Youth: An Overview of the Experiences of LGBT Youth in the Juvenile Justice System LGBTI: Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Intersex Persons in Custody (Selected Resources for Criminal Justice Professionals) Annotated Bibliography Best Practice Principles: Gay and Lesbian Youth in Care A Quick Guide for LGBTI Policy Development for Youth Confinement Facilities A Quick Guide for LGBTI Policy Development for Adult Prisons and Jails LGBTI Populations: Their Safety, Your Responsibility [Internet Broadcast] Human Resources and Administrative Investigations Protecting the Rights of Transgender Parents and Their Children: A Guide for Parents and Lawyers Violent Victimization by Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity, 2017–2020 This report presents data on the rate of violent victimization for persons who identified as lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender during the 4-ye The Overrepresentation of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Questioning, Gender Nonconforming and Transgender Youth Within the Child Welfare to Juvenile Justice Crossover Population (2016) This study surveyed youth in seven juvenile detention facilities. Entitled to Treatment: Medical Care for Transgender Adolescents in the Juvenile Justice System (2016) Transgender individuals are those whose “gender identity” - their personal sense of being male or female - does not match the sex they were assigne Reflections on New National Data on LGBT/GNCT Youth in the Justice System (2017) The purpose of this paper is to report new national data on the over-representation of lesbian, gay, bisexual, questioning, gender nonconforming, a Unjust: LGBTQ Youth Incarcerated in the Juvenile Justice System (2017) This report and graphical executive summary examines how LGBTQ youth who are incarcerated in juvenile detention and correctional facilities face bi The Transgender Respect, Agency, and Dignity Act (SB-132) This bill would require the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation to, during initial intake and classification, and in a private setting, as U.S. Department of Health & Human Services: Health & Well-being for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Americans HHS works to ensure that LGBTQ+ people, their families, and communities receive equal access to health services by providing enhanced resources for Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Health People who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender (LGBT) are members of every community. World Professional Association for Transgender Health The World Professional Association for Transgender Health (WPATH), formerly known as the (Harry Benjamin International Gender Dysphoria Association Administration for Children's Services: LGBTQ Support ACS is committed to creating a safe and affirming environment where all young people can thrive, no matter their sexual orientation or gender-ident National PREA Resource Center: Research Library: LGBTI This link takes the reader to a list of LGBTI resources from The PREA Resources Center. The Intersex Society of North America (ISNA) The Intersex Society of North America (ISNA) is devoted to systemic change to end shame, secrecy, and unwanted genital surgeries for people born wi National Center for Transgender Equality The National Center for Transgender Equality advocates to change policies and society to increase understanding and acceptance of transgender peopl Transgender Law Center (TLC) Transgender Law Center changes law, policy, and attitudes so that all people can live safely, authentically, and free from discrimination r Lambda Legal Founded in 1973, Lambda Legal is the oldest and largest national legal organization whose mission is to achieve full recognition of the civil right Just Detention International Just Detention International is a health and human rights organization that seeks to end sexual abuse in all forms of detention. American Psychological Association: Transgender People, Gender Identity and Gender Expression What does transgender mean? Standing With LGBT Prisoners: An Advocate’s Guide to Ending Abuse and Combating Imprisonment Jails are traumatizing and often dangerous places, especially for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender people, and anyone who is gender nonconfo Committing to Safety and Respect for LGBTI Youth and Adults in Confinement: Lessons From Two Agencies Research has shown that lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people face a higher risk of sexual victimization in confinement. The Teaching Transgender Toolkit: Glossary of Transgender Terms (2015) This is a glossary of some of the more common terms that are used when discussing transgender identities and experiences. Quine v. Beard (Case# C 14-02726 JST) California is first in the nation to agree to pay for a transgender inmate’s sex reassignment operation, but the state’s settlement of a recent cou Open Doors for All: Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity Protections in Health Care (2015) Navigating our country’s health system—from getting affordable insurance coverage to finding quality care—can be a challenge for anyone. National LGBTQIA+ Heath Education Center Homepage We provide education programs, resourcesand consultation to health careorganizations with the goal of optimizing quality, cost effective health car Suicide Thoughts and Attempts Among Transgender Adults: Findings from the 2015 U.S. Transgender Survey (2019) Studies show that the prevalence of suicide thoughts and attempts among transgender adults is significantly higher than that of the U.S. Being transgender no longer a 'mental disorder': APA (2012) The American Psychiatric Association has revised its Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders and it no longer lists being transgender Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion: Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Health LGBT individuals encompass all races and ethnicities, religions, and social classes. The Fenway Institute Homepage The Fenway Institute conducts policy research on issues affecting LGBT health, HIV policy, hepatitis, sexually transmitted infections, and other is American Psychiatric Association: Gender Dysphoria In the upcoming fifth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-5), people whose gender at birth is contrary to the “What's the right thing to do?” Correctional healthcare providers' knowledge, attitudes and experiences caring for transgender inmates (2017) Findings revealed that transgender inmates do not consistently receive adequate or gender-affirming care while incarcerated. Human Rights Campaign Homepage By inspiring and engaging individuals and communities, the Human Rights Campaign strives to end discrimination against LGBTQ+ people and realize a CSG Justice Center Releases Roadmap for Reforming School Discipline (2014) The Council of State Governments (CSG) Justice Center released today a comprehensive report providing school leaders and state and local government ACS Office of LGBTQ Child and Family Well-Being ACS is committed to creating a safe and affirming environment where all young people can thrive, no matter their sexual orientation or gender-ident Recommendations for promoting the health and well-being of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender adolescents: a position paper of the Society for Adolescent Health and Medicine (2013) Adolescent health care providers frequently care for patients who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgendered (LGBT), or who may be strugg Gender Spectrum Homepage Families have the first and greatest impact on children, so our connections with families are central to our work. TransYouth Family Ally Homepage Anyone who will enthusiastically nurture, support, respect and validate a trans, gender variant or gender questioning youth’s inherent right to sel Trevor Project: National Survey on LGBTQ Youth Mental Health 2021 The past year has been incredibly difficult for so many, but we also know that lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and questioning (LGBTQ) y Visualizing the unequal treatment of LGBTQ people in the criminal justice system (2021) LGBTQ people are overrepresented at every stage of our criminal justice system, from juvenile justice to parole. LGBTQ Youth of Color in the School-to-Prison Pipeline: Freedom, Liberation, and Resistance (2017) Emergent research suggests Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ) youth experience increased discipline in school, as well as incre 20 Years of Advocating for LGBTQ Youth in Out-of-Home Care (2018) Government-funded systems for youth in out-of-home care have laudable and important public policy goals. Library of Congress: LGBTQ+ Legal Resources: A Beginner’s Guide This Beginner’s Guide is intended to simplify this research process, and provide some helpful resources for those interested in the law surrounding An (updated) LGBTQ+ friendly survey template (2022) Violent Victimization by Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity, 2017-2020 This report presents data on the rate of violent victimization for persons who identified as lesbian, gay, bisexual, or transgender during the 4-ye Nurse’s Guide to Caring for LGBTQ+ Youth Learn how to provide culturally competent healthcare to LGBTQ+ youth, a vulnerable population in need of knowledgeable, compassionate, and skilled Lesbian, Gay, and Bisexual Behavioral Health: Results from the 2021 and 2022 National Surveys on Drug Use and Health (2023) Lesbian, Gay, and Bisexual Behavioral Health: Results from the 2021 and 2022 National Surveys on Drug Use and Health presents data on key substance
## https://nicic.gov/authors/jennifer-yahner


National Institute of Corrections [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/authors/jennifer-yahner)

> Jennifer Yahner Surviving the Streets of New York: Experiences of LGBTQ Youth, YMSM, and YWSW Engaged in Survival Sex This is "the first study to focus on lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer or questioning (LGBTQ) youth; young men who have sex with men ( Locked In: Interactions with the Criminal Justice and Child Welfare Systems for LGBTQ Youth, YMSM, and YWSW Who Engage in Survival Sex This report focuses on LGBTQ [lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer or questioning] youth who become involved in the commercial sex market Arts Infusion Initiative, 2010-15: Evaluation Report "In 2010, an ambitious model for social change emerged in Chicago that aimed to connect detained youth and those at risk for incarceration (“at-ris Replication Validation of the Employment Retention Inventory: An Assessment Tool of the National Institute of Corrections This report summarizes findings from the Urban Institute’s replication validation of the National Institute of Corrections (NIC) Employment Retenti
## https://nicic.gov/weblink/nurses-guide-caring-lgbtq-youth


Nurse’s Guide to Caring for LGBTQ+ Youth [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/weblink/nurses-guide-caring-lgbtq-youth)

> Learn how to provide culturally competent healthcare to LGBTQ+ youth, a vulnerable population in need of knowledgeable, compassionate, and skilled nursing care. LGBTQ+ youth comprise a patient population that needs a culturally competent approach from thoughtful healthcare providers. If we can provide high-quality, unbiased nursing care for LGBTQ+ youth, we can more readily meet the needs of this group vulnerable to health disparities. Previous experience of prejudice can be a deterrent to seeking care. Fear of stigma and encountering discrimination is a key factor that can contribute to LGBTQ+ youth avoiding contact with the healthcare system. Nurses are in a unique position to create more equitable care for LGBTQ+ youth. As the largest segment of the healthcare workforce, nurses have more points of contact with patients than other providers. Nurses can seize the opportunity to bridge the gaps of care, tapping into the potential for connection, trust, patient engagement, and decreased negative outcomes. Keep reading to find out more about how to care for LGBTQ+ youth.
## https://nicic.gov/resources/nic-library/all-library-items/ojjdp-mpg-literature-review-lgbtq-youths-juvenile-justice


OJJDP MPG Literature Review: LGBTQ Youths in the Juvenile Justice System [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/resources/nic-library/all-library-items/ojjdp-mpg-literature-review-lgbtq-youths-juvenile-justice)

> Youths’ sexual orientations and gender identities are complex. Youths experience an ongoing process of sexual development as they mature into young adults. Adolescence presents a time in people’s lives when they are unsure of themselves and begin to question who they are ... Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (LGBTQ) youths may present unique challenges in the juvenile justice system. Research has shown that LGBTQ youths are more likely to confront certain barriers and environmental risk factors connected to their sexual orientations and gender identities (p. 1). This literature review is an excellent introduction to issues surrounding LGBTQ juvenile offenders. Sections of this document include: definitions; the number of LGBTQ youth in the juvenile justice system; risk and protective factors; LGBTQ youth in the juvenile justice system; outcome evidence; recommendations to reform policies and practices; and conclusion.
## https://nicic.gov/resources/nic-library/all-library-items/practice-guide-creating-juvenile-justice-lgbtq-task-force


Practice Guide: Creating a Juvenile Justice LGBTQ Task Force [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/resources/nic-library/all-library-items/practice-guide-creating-juvenile-justice-lgbtq-task-force)

> "In an effort to adopt policies and/or establish community relationships so that LGBTQ [lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning] youth and their families have access to supportive resources, some jurisdictions convened LGBTQ task forces or workgroups. The purpose of this practice guide is to provide instruction regarding how to establish a task force along with guidance on handling possible challenges to this work. This guide is directed toward the individual or group of individuals within a jurisdiction who are charged with convening and facilitating such a task force" (p. 1). Sections of this guide include: introduction; the role of the task force; intersecting identities; recruitment and retention; facilitating the task force; drafting a comprehensive policy; challenges within and outside of the task force; policy implementation; and conclusion. "Convening an LGBTQ task force in the juvenile justice system is, by no means, an easy endeavor. Collaborations are not perfect, but the ability of government systems, CBOs [community-based organizations], and community members to come together to create reform is worthwhile. The potential benefits for youth and families are numerous and oftentimes immeasurable" (p. 16).
## https://nicic.gov/resources/nic-library/all-library-items/surviving-streets-new-york-experiences-lgbtq-youth-ymsm-and


Surviving the Streets of New York: Experiences of LGBTQ Youth, YMSM, and YWSW Engaged in Survival Sex [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/resources/nic-library/all-library-items/surviving-streets-new-york-experiences-lgbtq-youth-ymsm-and)

> This is "the first study to focus on lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer or questioning (LGBTQ) youth; young men who have sex with men (YMSM); and young women who have sex with women (YWSW) who get involved in the commercial sex market in order to meet basic survival needs, such as food or shelter. The report documents these youth’s experiences and characteristics to gain a better understanding of why they engage in survival sex, describes how the support networks and systems in their lives have both helped them and let them down, and makes recommendations for better meeting the needs of this vulnerable population " (website). Sections of this report include; highlights; youths' engagement in the commercial sex trade for survival; current study goals and methodology; findings regarding the characteristics of LGBTQ youth, YMSM, and YWSW engaged in survival in New York City, the pathways into the survival-sex trade for this population, the characteristics of the commercial sex market, how much the youth earn and how they spend these earnings, the physical risks to them and how they protect themselves, the ways others help the youth find customers, the number of youth involved in exploitative situations, the composition of the youths' network, and the youths' perceptions of engaging in survival sex; discussion and summary; policy and practice guidelines; and main findings.
## https://nicic.gov/weblink/us-department-health-human-services-health-well-being-lesbian-gay-bisexual-and-transgender


U.S. Department of Health & Human Services: Health & Well-being for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Americans [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/weblink/us-department-health-human-services-health-well-being-lesbian-gay-bisexual-and-transgender)

> HHS works to ensure that LGBTQ+ people, their families, and communities receive equal access to health services by providing enhanced resources for LGBTQ+ health issues; developing better information regarding LGBTQ+ health needs; and working to close the LGBTQ+ health disparities gap that currently exists. U.S. Department of Health & Human Services: Health & Well-being for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender Americans Notice about external resources These links are being provided as a convenience and for informational purposes only; they do not constitute an endorsement or an approval by the National Institute of Corrections (NIC) of any of the products, services or opinions of the corporation or organization or individual. NIC bears no responsibility for the accuracy, legality or content of the external site or for that of subsequent links. Contact the external site for answers to questions regarding its content.
## https://nicic.gov/weblink/unjust-lgbtq-youth-incarcerated-juvenile-justice-system-2017


Unjust: LGBTQ Youth Incarcerated in the Juvenile Justice System (2017) [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/weblink/unjust-lgbtq-youth-incarcerated-juvenile-justice-system-2017)

> This report and graphical executive summary examines how LGBTQ youth who are incarcerated in juvenile detention and correctional facilities face bias in adjudication, and mistreatment and abuse in confinement facilities. LGBTQ youth also lack supportive services when leaving the criminal and juvenile justice systems, often forcing them back into negative interactions with law enforcement. Given that nearly 40% of incarcerated girls in identify as LGB and 85-90% of incarcerated LGBTQ youth are youth of color, it is crucial that any effort to change the way youth in the United States engage with the juvenile justice system must consider the unique experiences of LGBTQ youth. This spotlight report highlights the experiences of LGBTQ youth incarcerated in the juvenile justice system. This content has not been updated in more than 5 years. It may be outdated and links may no longer function. Please contact the NIC Helpdesk if you have any questions about this content or would like to report a broken link. Unjust: LGBTQ Youth Incarcerated in the Juvenile Justice System (2017) Notice about external resources These links are being provided as a convenience and for informational purposes only; they do not constitute an endorsement or an approval by the National Institute of Corrections (NIC) of any of the products, services or opinions of the corporation or organization or individual. NIC bears no responsibility for the accuracy, legality or content of the external site or for that of subsequent links. Contact the external site for answers to questions regarding its content.
## https://nicic.gov/weblink/visualizing-unequal-treatment-lgbtq-people-criminal-justice-system-2021


Visualizing the unequal treatment of LGBTQ people in the criminal justice system (2021) [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://nicic.gov/weblink/visualizing-unequal-treatment-lgbtq-people-criminal-justice-system-2021)

> LGBTQ people are overrepresented at every stage of our criminal justice system, from juvenile justice to parole. The data is clear: lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ ) people are overrepresented at every stage of criminal justice system, starting with juvenile justice system involvement. They are arrested, incarcerated, and subjected to community supervision at significantly higher rates than straight and cisgender people. This is especially true for trans people and queer women. And while incarcerated, LGBTQ individuals are subject to particularly inhumane conditions and treatment. For this briefing, we’ve compiled the existing research on LGBTQ involvement and experiences with the criminal justice system, and - where the data did not yet exist - analyzed a recent national data set to fill in the gaps. (Namely, we provide the only national estimates for lesbian, gay, or bisexual arrest rates and community supervision rates that we know of.) We present the findings for each stage of the criminal justice system with available data, and pair them with new graphics illustrating the dramatic disparities in the system related to sexuality and gender identity.