



# [npaihb.org](npaihb.org): ~1 pages censored since 1/20/25

## https://www.npaihb.org/resources/final-lgbtq-poster/


FINAL LGBTQ Poster [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.npaihb.org/resources/final-lgbtq-poster/)

> Idaho Tribes There are 5 NPAIHB Member Tribes in the state of Idaho. To learn more about the individual Tribes, click on the links. Oregon Tribes There are 9 NPAIHB Member Tribes in the state of Oregon. To learn more about the individual Tribes, click on the links. Washington Tribes There are 29 NPAIHB Member Tribes in the State of Washington. To learn more about the individual Tribes, click on the links. Environmental Public Health The Environmental Public Health Program supports Northwest Tribes by providing comprehensive environmental public health services grounded in Indigenous knowledge and western science. Learn More Hepatitis C HIV Opioid Use Disorder Diabetes ECHO Improving Data & Enhancing Access – Northwest Project The IDEA-NW Project works to reduce AI/AN misclassification in public health data systems and provide Northwest Tribes with local-level health data. Western Tribal Diabetes Project The mission of the Western Tribal Diabetes Project (WTDP) is to empower tribal communities to utilize diabetes data at the local level to track the Indian Health Service Standards of Care for Patients with Type 2 Diabetes, insure patients receive timely care, improve case management, identify gaps in care, and better address program planning. Institutional Review Board The Portland Area Indian Health Service (IHS) Institutional Review Board has the responsibility to review, and the authority to approve or disapprove, all research activities that use IHS facilities, data, staff resources, or funding in the Portland Area, moreover, they retain the same responsibility to previously approved activities. Northwest Native American Research Center for Health The NW NARCH program is operated by the EpiCenter at the Northwest Portland Area Indian Health Board (NPAIHB), an Indian organization uniquely qualified to administer NW NARCH based on active membership of all 43 Northwest Indian tribes in Idaho, Oregon, and Washington. NW NARCH offers AI/AN researchers access to the extensive health research training opportunities of two premier academic health research institutes of the NorthwestâOregon Health Science University (OHSU) and Portland State University (PSU). Maternal and Child Health Northwest Tribes recognize that healthy Native mothers and children are at the heart of healthy Native communities. Healthy Native moms and babies need a continuum of support that extends across families, communities, health care and social services systems. The Northwest Portland Area Indian Health Board (NPAIHB) works to support tribal Maternal and Child Health (MCH) initiatives through community-based research projects, data, technical assistance, and coordination of resources. Native Boost Native Boost strives to increase vaccine confidence and increase childhood immunization rates in Tribal communities across Idaho, Oregon, and Washington. Directory of NPAIHB Programs Learn more about the good work thatâs going on! View Summaries Tribal Community Health Provider Project The TCHP Project supports tribal innovation and leadership by facilitating projects that allow our communities to thrive in the way our ancestors intended. Our projects promote tribal self-governance and tribal sovereignty by removing barriers and nurturing the voice of the next generation of AI/AN leadership. Our project is expanding the tribal community health provider programs in the Portland Area by designing and implementing TCHP education programs for CHA/P, BHA/P, and DHA/T, championing initiatives to expand health care workforce, amplifying tribal leadership in health care, supporting tribal traditional practices, and establishing infrastructure to support TCHP programs like an Area CHAP Certification Board, and the Oregon DHAT pilot project. View Site Weekly Update The Northwest Portland Area Indian Health Board (NPAIHB) holds virtual Weekly Update sessions on Tuesdays from 10:00 to 11:00 AM Pacific Time. Please join us to learn about and discuss important and timely public health, epidemiology and data, and policy issues of interest to those working in and with tribal and AI/AN communities. Visit Page Resource Library Visit our resource library to view materials covering many areas of Indian health. NPAIHB Communications Visit our communications page to stayÂ informed about our work, news and events. NARCH Training Opportunities Training & Outreach Activities NPAIHB has invested well in the purchase of high-speed computer equipment and technology for use by the Northwest Tribes. A 24-workstation training room provides the students with a unique learning experience, with courses ranging from statistical software packages to medical patient management databases. EHR Support The EHR Support Center is here to assist clinics, providers, and informaticists in understanding and navigating, and improving their use of electronic health record technology. Washington Youth Sexual Health Projectâ The Northwest Portland Area Indian Health Board (NPAIHB) and the Washington State Department of Health is a co-coordinated Innovation Network of youth-serving organizations dedicated to improving youthâs access to and experience with sexual health care in I/T/U (Indian Health Service, Tribal and Urban) clinic settings, including sexual health services for 2SLGBTQ teens and young adults. Native Voices Our goal was to adapt a video-based HIV/STI intervention for AI/AN teens and young adults (15-24 years old), and evaluate its impact among Native youth living in urban and rural communities. Native VOICES is currently the only intervention purposefully designed for AI/AN youth included in the CDCâs compendium of effective HIV interventions. The study was funded by the IHS Native American Research Centers for Health (NARCH). Native It’s Your Game Our goal was to design an evidence-based sexual health curriculum that reflects and includes the experiences of Native youth and the communities they come from. One that weaves the diverse faces, voices, experiences, and cultural values that can be shared with not only tribal communities, but with other multicultural communities across the US. We have taken a community approach, to solve a community problem. Response Circles Funded by past Indian Health Service domestic violence prevention program grants, the goals and objectives of this past project were to foster coordination and collaboration among DV/SA service providers in the Pacific Northwest, provide technical assistance to Northwest Tribes, and increase community awareness about domestic and sexual violence. Community of Practice Virtual Gathering On Aging 2025 Conference Quarterly Board Meeting Information View upcoming and past Board Meeting Agendas and presentations. Internships Interns and volunteers are trained by NPAIHB staff on study design, human subjectsâ protection, and intervention development, among other things. They are involved in a wide range of tasks, including determining the effectiveness of protocols and therapies, coding, sorting records, observing, describing projects, analyzing data, and preparing case reports. Learn More Internship Application Accessibility Tools