



# [NPS.gov  (U.S. National Park Service)](nps.gov): ~14 pages censored since 1/20/25

## [NPS.gov  (U.S. National Park Service)](www.nps.gov): ~14 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://www.nps.gov/elro/learn/historyculture/lgbtqi.htm


Eleanor Roosevelt National Historic Site (U.S. National Park Service [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.nps.gov/elro/learn/historyculture/lgbtqi.htm)

> “I feel I’d like to go off with you and forget the rest of the world existed.” Eleanor Roosevelt to Marion Dickerman, 27 August 1925 “I wish I could lie down beside you tonight & take you in my arms.” Eleanor Roosevelt to Lorena Hickock, 1 September 1934 “In the meantime love me a little and show it if you can and remember to take care of yourself for you are the most precious person in the world. All my love.” Eleanor Roosevelt to David Gurewitsch, 8 February 1956 Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer or questioning (LGBTQ)* people are part of the fabric of American life and history. The stories of their strengths and struggles—the right to live, love, and thrive—is a story of the cultural, social, and legal history of the United States. During Eleanor Roosevelt's lifetime, no lesbian, gay man, bisexual, transgender, or queer person gave a thought to their homes or actions being historic. Most were living their lives quietly or in secret. But at Val-Kill, LGBTQ people infused this place with meaning. Their lives and their work are fundamental to Val-Kill’s significance. Eleanor Roosevelt surrounded herself with influential women that today we recognize as lesbian. Several were life-long partners—Nancy Cook and Marion Dickerman, Molly Dewson and Polly Porter, Esther Lape and Elizabeth Read. These women enlivened Val-Kill as much or more than anyone else. Cook and Dickerman built Val-Kill with Eleanor and resided there for three decades. Lape and Read played an important role in Eleanor’s political development and activism. Eleanor had a lengthy and intimate relationship with journalist Lorena Hickok—their extensive and sensual correspondence is now well-known. Established as a National Historic Site in 1977, the romantic relationships of either Eleanor Roosevelt or Nancy Cook and Marion Dickerman were not acknowledged at Val-Kill. Cook and Dickerman were ambiguously described as life partners—end of story. Eleanor’s intimate life was the subject of rumor while she was living, the details obscure until the papers of Lorena Hickock were made available for research in 1978. Even then, the most romantic passages between Eleanor and “Hick” were dismissed as “particularly susceptible to misinterpretation.” The narrative at Val-Kill continued without recognition or exploration of Eleanor Roosevelt’s emotional and erotic life. Any resemblance of passion in the life of Eleanor was reserved for clichés—she was admired as an outspoken stateswoman who loved all people, championing their civil or human rights. Eleanor’s romantic affection was not limited to women. Her relationships with two younger men—Earl Miller and David Gurewitsch—were also among the most important of her life. Eleanor’s son, James, believed “there may have been one real romance in mother’s life outside of marriage. Mother may have had an affair with Earl Miller.” Without any surviving documents to characterize the precise nature of her relationship with Miller, it remains a mystery. In later years, friends referred to rumors that Eleanor wanted to leave FDR after his election to the presidency and marry Earl. Later, there was David Gurewitsch. Over the fifteen years she knew him, Gurewitsch was Eleanor’s friend, confidant, personal physician, traveling companion, and the object of an intense romantic affection. Among the hundreds of personal letters between them, many reveal the longing and tender, unrequited love of an aging woman in the twilight of her life. The absence of this history at Val-Kill has been a long-standing concern for LGBTQ people and scholars. The ambiguity of evidence, as is often the case with historic LGBTQ lives, has been championed as a rationale for denying the history. Today, a broader, more rich understanding of Val-Kill’s significance and meaning has benefited from LGBTQ scholarship and biographies published over the past twenty-five years. LGBTQ people are defined almost exclusively by their sexuality and gender expression usually marked by others as deviant behavior. Thus, historians tended to obscure this aspect of famous LGBTQ lives. But to ignore it, is in effect rewriting history by leaving out important aspects of their lives. Why should we care to know anything about Eleanor Roosevelt’s intimate life? Eleanor tells us herself, in a letter she wrote to Gurewitsch in 1948: The people I love mean more to me than all the public things even if you do think that public affairs should be my chief vocation. I only do the public things because I really love all people, and I only love all people because there are a few people whom I love dearly and who matter to me above everything else. These are not so many, and of them, you are now one. If we want to understand Eleanor Roosevelt, we cannot separate her public life from her intimate life. The opportunity to “love dearly” sustained the life of a compassionate humanitarian. In this way, Eleanor Roosevelt’s true legacy is really the freedom she gave herself to love. *The LGBTQ acronym has multiple forms. The Q generally stands for queer or questioning. Sometimes A (asexual), I (intersex), and + is added in recognition of all non-straight, non-cisgender identitites. Now Available Courage to Love | Last updated: November 20, 2023
### https://www.nps.gov/orgs/1244/ergs.htm


Employee Resource Groups [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.nps.gov/orgs/1244/ergs.htm)

> Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) are voluntary, membership-based, employee-led affinity groups that celebrate employees’ identities and values. Each ERG aims to: - Share informational and educational resources with their members; - Foster a diverse, inclusive NPS: one in which all employees feel valued, and one which is a better equipped leader within our changing nation; - Develop future leaders who will recruit diverse, talented candidates and foster an inclusive workplace; - Deepen employee engagement by providing avenues for employees to identify, design, and implement efforts to improve employee morale and strengthen the NPS community; - Provide a safe space for employees to share their experiences, as well as to network, learn from, and support each other; and - Advise NPS leadership on issues relevant to the ERG, including employee recognition, enhancing cultural awareness, and identifying structural barriers that some employees face—and how to effectively remove those barriers. All NPS ERGs are open to all NPS and DOI employees and allies, regardless of personal identity or position within the organization. The Office of Relevancy, Diversity and Inclusion oversees and provides administrative support to the agency’s ERGs. Pleaes email us for more information about any of the employee resource groups. Learn more about what each does and how to join below: Asian American Pacific Islander (AAPI) Employee Resource Group The Asian American Pacific Islander (AAPI) ERG addresses the unique needs of Asian American and Pacific Islander employees, volunteers, interns, and visitors. The group collaborates with other NPS ERGs to advise senior leadership on policies and practices that support ERG members, and works to enhance the visibility of Asian American and Pacific Islander history and contemporary contributions in the national park system. Council for Indigenous Relevancy, Communication, Leadership and Excellence (CIRCLE) The Council for Indigenous Relevancy, Communication, Leadership, and Excellence (CIRCLE) is a resource for NPS employees to enhance their understanding of American Indian, Alaska Native, Pacific Island Native, and Indigenous (AI/AN/PIN/I) issues. Employee Empowerment Collective (EEC) The Employee Empowerment Collective (EEC) serves the agency by addressing the unique needs of African American employees and visitors. Employees for the Advancement of People with Disabilities Employees for the Advancement of People with Disabilities is working to learn how we can advance and improve the experiences of people with disabilities, whether it be in the office, digitally, or when experiencing our public lands. Hispanic Organization on Relevancy, Advising, Leadership and Excellence (HORALE) The Hispanic Organization on Relevancy, Advising, Leadership, and Excellence (HORALE) is s a service-wide resource for NPS employees at all levels to enhance and better understand national Latinx issues. Innovative Leadership Network (ILN) The Innovative Leadership Network (ILN) is dedicated to enhancing the culture of the NPS by fostering creativity, leadership development, communication, idea sharing, innovative action, and the empowerment of NPS employees at all levels. In so doing, we will make the NPS one of the best places to work in the federal government. Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ+) Employee Resource Group The LGBTQ ERG addresses the needs of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer employees, potential employees, visitors, and potential visitors. The group formed in April 2015 and endeavors to support interpretive opportunities for LGBTQ history in the National Park System and to assist the agency in improving the working environment for all through increased hiring, retention and visibility of LGBTQ employees. Women's Employee Resource Group (W-ERG) The Women’s Employee Resource Group (W-ERG) exists to support and empower women and NPS employees of all genders. The group works with employees and NPS leadership to identify and dismantle systemic gender bias within the NPS through education and advocacy. Recognizing the intersectional nature of identity, the W-ERG collaborates with other ERGs and non-NPS resources in support of workplace equity. Last updated: May 23, 2022
### https://www.nps.gov/subjects/tellingallamericansstories/lgbtqresources.htm


LGBTQ Heritage Education Resources [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.nps.gov/subjects/tellingallamericansstories/lgbtqresources.htm)

> Providing free education tools and materials for teachers, interpreters, students, and lifelong learners inside and outside the National Park Service is one important way we support the agency's mission. The value of America's cultures and diverse heritages may be lost if it's not passed on to the next generation or experienced by the present one. Want to inspire young people to grow into responsible citizens? Looking for more resources to craft interpretation or educational programming plans? See the related resources below or visit our Education & Training page for more. As an educator, you can incorporate LGBTQ history and heritage into lesson plans. The National Park Service has tools available for all grade levels through the Teaching with Historic Places program. More information, examples, and inspiration are available via the Gay, Lesbian, and Straight Education Network (GLSEN) and Quist. Information on teaching and thinking about diverse history is also available via the National Park Service's Heritage Initiatives "Teaching Cultural Heritage Preservation." Last updated: May 20, 2021
### https://www.nps.gov/subjects/tellingallamericansstories/lgbtqplaces.htm


LGBTQ Heritage Featured Places [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.nps.gov/subjects/tellingallamericansstories/lgbtqplaces.htm)

> Explore Featured Places The NPS preserves a variety of places commemorating America's multi-faceted history. The NPS preserves cultural resources, such as buildings, landscapes, archeological sites, and museum collections. They serve as tangible evidence of our collective past. Find a Park to find more of all Americans' stories. Learn how the Park Service commemorates and preserves LGBTQ heritage through the featured content below. Celebrate LGBTQ Heritage at parks across the US. Check out the residence of the Public Universal Friend, a genderless American preacher. Discover 6 historic places that celebrate Latino LGBTQ visibility and community in the US. Discover Additional Places with LGBTQ Heritage The National Park Service cares for America's more than 400 national parksâ€¦and works in almost every one of her 3,141 counties. We are proud that tribes, local governments, nonprofit organizations, businesses, and individual citizens ask for our help in revitalizing their communities, preserving local history, celebrating local heritage, and creating close to home opportunities for kids and families to get outside, be active, and have fun. Find a few selected important places outside the parks here and explore the links for more. Then explore what you can do to share your own stories and the places that matter to you. Many places have an LGBTQ history, but it is not mentioned in their interpretations. For those sites, visit the LGBTQ America HistoryPin project. Mapping these places helps to make this heritage more visible. Last updated: June 29, 2022
### https://www.nps.gov/articles/000/lgbtq-flags.htm


LGBTQ+ Flags (U.S. National Park Service) [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.nps.gov/articles/000/lgbtq-flags.htm)

> Last updated: April 28, 2023 Article LGBTQ+ Flags - Created by Gilbert Baker in 1979 after the first version was changed due to: - Pink color was expensive and difficult to standardize. - Teal color was removed to create symmetry for the public after the assassination of Harvey Milk. - Popularity of the rainbow flag took off after the Stonewall 25 celebrations, where Gilbert Baker created a mile long rainbow flag and then cut it up and distributed it to sponsors and embassies around the globe. - Designed by Daniel Quasar in 2018 to raise the conversation about marginalized groups within the LGBTQ+ community. - Flag is set on the backdrop of the rainbow flag with a chevron in the colors of black, brown, as well as the light blue/pink/white of the transgender flag. - Flag is protected by Creative Commons (BY-NC-SA) to "make sure that it is used properly, that is still supports the message of the flag, and supports the creator of the work." - Transgender: an umbrella term that incorporates all people whose gender identity is different from their sex assigned at birth. - Flag designed by Monica Helms in 1999 and debuted at a Pride Parade in Phoenix, Arizona in 2000. - Designed to be flown in any direction, symbolizing transgender individuals finding correctness in themselves. - Colors: Blue represents masculinity, pink represents feminity, and white represents those who are intersex, non-binary, or in transition. - Two Spirit: a cultural identity that describes a Native Indigenous identity that describes a person's sexuality, gender, and/or spiritual identity, all encompassing of LGBTQ+ identities. - First proposed and voted on during the 3rd annual international LGBT Native American Gathering in 1990 at Winnipeg, Canada, by Elder Myra Laramee. - Encompasses diversity of Indigenous LGBTQ+ identities and cultures. - Flag is the widely known rainbow flag with a native symbol overlain, not the only accepted flag representating Two-Spirit but currently the most well known. - Flag first created in 2010 and was posted to Tumblr by an anonymous user which was later revealed to be named Justin V. - Colors represent respectively masculine people, feminine people, and non-binary or trans people. - Pansexual term is dated to 1914, but was not used as a definition of the sexual orientation until the 1970s with its popularity taking off in the 1990s. - Pansexual term is typically associated with "bisexuality" sharing similarities, however, "pansexuality" seeks to emphasize all genders and less preference as compared to bisexuality. •An asexual person is someone who has no sexual feelings or desires or who is not sexually attracted to anyone •Flag was first introduced by AVEN in 2010 to represent people who identify as asexual, or ace •Gradient of black, gray, and white represent asexuality, allosexuality (a term meaning “everyone who is not asexual”), and everything in between •Purple stripe is a holdover from one of the original asexuality pride symbols: the AVEN triangle •Introduced by Cameron Whimsey on Tumblr in 2014 to represent people who identify as aromantic, or aro •Green represents aromanticism, generally explained as those who experience little to no desire for romantic relationships •Lighter green represents the aromantic spectrum •White represents aesthetic attraction and platonic friendships •Gray represents those in the “gray area” under the aromantic spectrum •Black represents the sexuality spectrum •An agender person does not identify themselves as having a particular gender •Flag was first introduced by Tumblr user “Salem X” in 2014 to represent folks who identify as agender •Black and white represent the absence of gender •Gray represents being semi-genderless •Green represents non-binary genders •Agender folk typically experience a lack of gender identity, a gender that is neutral, or a gender that falls beyond the gender binary •A non-binary person’s gender is not exclusively male or female •Flag was first introduced by Kye Ronan in 2014 •Yellow stands for people whose gender doesn’t exist within the binary •White represents people with all genders or many genders •Purple stands for people with genders that may be a mix of female and male •Black represents people that identify as not having any gender at all •Aims to include and depict the experiences of non-binary people •An intersex person is one with both male and female sex characteristics at birth, including chromosome patterns, gonads, genitals, etc. •Estimated that 1.7% of people are born intersex, comparable to the number of those born with red hair •Flag was first introduced in 2013 by Morgan Carpenter of Intersex Human Rights Australia •The circle is described by Carpenter as “unbroken and unornamented, symbolizing wholeness and completeness, and our potentialities. We are still fighting for bodily autonomy and genital integrity, and this symbolizes who and how we want to be.” •Yellow and purple are considered neutral, not colors typically associated with the constructions of gender •A lesbian is someone who experiences sexual or romantic attraction to other women •Flag was first introduced by Emily Gwen in 2018 •Dark orange represents gender non-conformity, orange represents independence, and light orange represents community •White represents unique relationships with womanhood •Pink represents serenity and peace, dusty pink represents love and sex, and dark rose represents femininity •Has many iterations, including the labrys lesbian flag from 1999, the butch lesbian flag, and a recent exclusionary “lipstick lesbian” flag •Bisexuality has different meanings to different people •Flag was first introduced by Michael Page in 1998 to increase the visibility of bisexuals within the LGBTQ+ community •Colors and overlap were inspired by Liz Nania’s biangles (bisexuality triangles) •Pink represents attraction to the same sex •Blue represents attraction to the opposite sex •Purple, the “overlap,” represents the diversity of attraction regardless of sex or gender •People partake in the activity of doing drag for reasons ranging from self-expression to mainstream performance •Flag was first introduced by Drag Queen Veranda L’Ni in 2016 •Purple represents a passion for drag, white represents the blank slate of the body and face that change to become characters, pink crown represents leadership, pink stars represent the many forms of drag, blue represents self-expression and loyalty •Used as a uniform marker for people labeled as homosexuals in Nazi concentration camps •Reclaimed by a post-war German gay rights organization as a symbol of liberation in 1973 •Inspired the creation of the organizational symbol for ACT UP in 1986, which included a pink upwards triangle and the words “SILENCE=DEATH” to call attention to the AIDS crisis •Serves as a reminder of the violence faced by the LGBTQ+ community •Acts as a symbol of strength found in unity and mutual support in the face of great hostilities •Designed in 2017 through a partnership between the design agency Tierney and Philadelphia’s Office of LGBT Affairs •Borne of protest after several high-profile stories exposed racism in queer neighborhoods in Philadelphia •Rainbow represents all people under the umbrella of the LGBTQ+ community •Black and brown lines call attention to people of color within the LGBTQ+ community •Represents the demand for inclusion and intersectionality within the LGBTQ+ community
### https://www.nps.gov/subjects/npscelebrates/pride-month.htm


NPS Commemorations and Celebrations (U.S. National Park Service [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.nps.gov/subjects/npscelebrates/pride-month.htm)

> During Pride Month in June and throughout the year, the National Park Service and our partners celebrate the contributions of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ+) Americans past and present, as well as preserve the rich histories of the LGBTQ+ Americans found in national parks and communities across the country. What stories will you discover? How will you show your pride while visiting national parks? Join the conversation or show your pride in parks on social media by using #PrideMonth and #FindYourPark or #EncuentraTuParque. Resources The National Park Service shares LGBTQ+ history and heritage found in national parks, as well as assists in the preservation of history within communities through various programs and partnerships. Find resources to learn, teach, or engage in conversations about LGBTQ+ history and heritage. Beyond Pride Month, continue to explore history of LBGTQ Americans both past and present. - LGBTQ Heritage Theme Study Examine places, stories, and conversations connected to LBGTQ history through an academic study. - The Pride Guide Learn more about LBGTQ heritage with an interactive workbook that can accompany the theme study or used on its own. - LGBTQ+ Finding Our Place Uncover stories and places of LBGTQ heritage that have been obscured and erased throughout history. Last updated: June 13, 2024
### https://www.nps.gov/articles/000/places-of-latino-lgbtq-gathering-spaces.htm


Places of Latino LGBTQ Gathering Spaces (U.S. National Park Service) [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.nps.gov/articles/000/places-of-latino-lgbtq-gathering-spaces.htm)

> Last updated: August 24, 2022 Article Places of Latino LGBTQ Gathering Spaces Gathering places such as parks, people’s living rooms, and city streets are foundational to identities and communities. In these spaces, LGBTQ Latinos formed groups, found refuge, resisted oppression, and created a deeper sense of what it means to be Latino and LGBTQ. In spite of erasure and exclusion, the LGBTQ and Latino communities have preserved the symbolic and tangible remains of LGBTQ and Latino history. Even when historic places are no longer standing, art can document these stories and make the layers of history visible. Explore the role of 6 historic places in celebrating Latino LGBTQ visibility and community in the US. 1. Great Wall of Los Angeles (Mural) Latinos played a pivotal role in early LGBTQ activism, including two pioneering gay rights organizations. Mattachine Society Cuban immigrant and organizer Gonzalo “Tony” Segura, Jr. helped grow the LA-based Mattachine Society into a national organization. Daughters of Bilitis In 1955, Chicana activist Mary (last name unknown) cofounded the Daughters of Bilitis to create safe spaces for lesbians to socialize. The Great Wall of Los Angeles mural depicts these events and other significant parts of LA’s history and culture. Between 1978 and 1984, Chicana muralist Judith F. Baca worked with a team of artists to create the 2,754-foot mural. The Great Wall of Los Angeles mural was listed in the National Register of Historic Places in 2017. 2. The Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, & Transgender Community Center Since its founding in 1983, the LGBT Community Center in New York City has served as a gathering space for several LGBTQ groups, including the Lesbian Avengers. Cofounded by Cuban activist and playwright Ana Maria Simo in 1992, the Lesbian Avengers used direct-action tactics (nonviolent demonstrations such as marches and kiss-ins) to increase lesbian visibility. The LGBT Center was designated a New York City Landmark in 2019. New York City is a Certified Local Government. 3. The Women's Building The San Francisco Women's Center (SFWC) emerged from radical and lesbian feminist movements in the 1970s. The SFWC purchased Mission Turn Hall in 1979 and renamed it The Women’s Building (TWB), a community landmark. Many of the founding directors were women from various social and ethnic groups, including the late lesbian Puerto Rican activist Carmen Vazquez. In 1994, the building’s façade transformed. A group of 7 women muralists painted the Maestrapeace Mural on the building — weaving together art, history, fiction, gender, race, class, and sexuality. Since 1979, TWB has stood as a gathering hub for groups, such as Somos Hermanas, Ellas en Acción, and Gay Latino Alliance, who achieved and continue to achieve social and gender equality for the community. The Women's Building was listed in the National Register of Historic Places in 2018. 4. Edificio Comunidad de Orgullo Gay de Puerto Rico The Edificio Comunidad de Orgullo Gay de Puerto Rico in San Juan was the home of Puerto Rico’s first gay liberation organization between 1975 and 1976. It paved the way for LGBTQ visibility on an island with deep colonial ties to machismo and anti-homosexuality. The organization provided educational and community services and published the magazine Pa'fuera! out of Casa Orgullo’s second floor. The magazine was distributed in gay libraries like Oscar Wilde Library in Greenwich Village and Lambda Rising in Washington DC. Casa Orgullo’s backyard extended into the city streets by hosting public events and social celebrations. These parades, pageants, and protests were key to establishing a larger community and launching the gay liberation movement in Puerto Rico. Edificio Comunidad de Orgullo Gay de Puerto Rico was listed in the National Register of Historic Places in 2016. 5. South River Drive Historic District The Mariel Boatlift contributed to monumental change in US immigration reform and Miami's LGBTQ history. From the early 1900s, the US denied entry to LGBTQ immigrants, but the US also opened its doors to anyone fleeing communism, including LGBTQ Marielitos who were deemed “unrevolutionary” and exiled by the Castro regime. With the Immigration Act of 1990, the US amended its immigration policy to accept LGBTQ immigrants and remove homosexuality as grounds for denying entry to the US. Marielitos established themselves within neighborhoods like Little Havana, working in department stores and hanging out in public spaces. The visibility of the trans and gay community became more prominent as Marielitos and LGBTQ immigrants from across Latin American and the Caribbean continued to make Miami home. South River Drive Historic District was listed in the National Register of Historic Places in 1987. 6. Chicago City Hall-Cook County Building After being diagnosed with AIDS in 1988, Puerto Rican and Mexican political cartoonist Daniel “Danny” Sotomayor combined art with activism. He published over 200 cartoons criticizing government officials’ refusal to acknowledge AIDS and barriers to research funding, drug trials, and treatment. Sotomayor also took to the streets as a cofounder of ACT UP Chicago. On April 24, 1990, over 5,000 demonstrators gathered to protest the American Medical Association and insurance industry’s response to AIDS. Sotomayor and other ACT UP Chicago leaders entered the Cook County Building. They hung a banner over the entrance to demand equal healthcare access for AIDS patients. Chicago City Hall-Cook County Building was designated a Chicago Landmark in 1982. Chicago is a Certified Local Government. The content for this article was researched and written by Melissa Hurtado, Heritage Education Fellow, and Jade Ryerson, Resource Assistant (Intern), with the Cultural Resources Office of Interpretation and Education. Bibliography Baldwin, Jessica C. “The Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual & Transgender Community Center Designation Report.” (Designation List 513 LP-2634). NYC Landmarks Preservation Commission. Edited by Katie Lemos McHale and Margaret Herman. June 18, 2019. http://www.nyclgbtsites.org/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/LGBT-Community-Center.pdf. Dowell, Chelsea. “Ana Maria Simo – Lesbian Avenger in the East Village.” Off the Grid (blog). Village Preservation. March 7, 2017. https://www.villagepreservation.org/2017/03/07/ana-maria-simo-lesbian-avenger-in-the-east-village/. Gala, Santiago and Juan Llanes Santos. "Edificio Comunidad de Orgullo Gay de Puerto Rico." National Register of Historic Places Registration Form. Puerto Rico State Historic Preservation Office, San Juan, May 2, 2016. https://npgallery.nps.gov/NRHP/AssetDetail?assetID=e9873242-1a04-495f-98ac-b42b47e67aab. Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Transgender Historical Society. "Guide to the San Francisco Women's Building/Women's Centers Records, 1966, 1972-2001." Online Archive of California. Published 2002. http://www.oac.cdlib.org/findaid/ark:/13030/kt696nb1jq/entire_text/. Julio Capó, Jr. “Queering Mariel: Mediating Cold War Foreign Policy and U.S. Citizenship among Cuba’s Homosexual Exile Community, 1978–1994.” Journal of American Ethnic History 29, no. 4 (2010): 78-106. https://doi.org/10.5406/jamerethnhist.29.4.0078. Keehnen, Owen. “One Person Can Change the World: Sotomayor.” In Out and Proud in Chicago: An Overview of the City’s Gay Community. Edited by Tracy Baim with contributions by John D’Emilio, Jonathan Ned Katz, and Jorjet Harper. Chicago: Surrey Books, 2008. The Lesbian Avengers. “An Incomplete History.” About. Accessed May 24, 2022. http://www.lesbianavengers.com/about/history.html. Library of Congress. “The Daughters of Bilitis.” LGBTQIA+ Studies: A Resource Guide. Accessed May 24, 2022. https://guides.loc.gov/lgbtq-studies/before-stonewall/daughters-of-bilitis. Library of Congress. “The Mattachine Society.” LGBTQIA+ Studies: A Resources Guide. Accessed May 24, 2022. https://guides.loc.gov/lgbtq-studies/before-stonewall/mattachine. Lo, Malinda. “The Women of Color Behind the Daughters of Bilitis.” Malinda Lo (blog). June 15, 2021. https://www.malindalo.com/blog/2021/6/15/daughters-of-bilitis. Makkai, Rebecca. “They Were Warriors.” Chicago Magazine. April 7, 2020. https://www.chicagomag.com/chicago-magazine/may-2020/oral-history-act-up-chicago-aids/. National Park Service. “Edificio Comunidad de Orgullo Gay de Puerto Rico.” Places. Last updated June 9, 2021. https://www.nps.gov/places/edificio-comunidad-de-orgullo-gay-de-puerto-rico.htm. Springate, Megan E., ed. LGBTQ America: A Theme Study of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer History. Washington, DC: National Park Service and National Park Foundation, 2016. https://www.nps.gov/subjects/tellingallamericansstories/lgbtqthemestudy.htm. National Park Service. “Women's Building, San Francisco, CA”. Places. Last updated March 19, 2019. https://www.nps.gov/places/womens-building-san-francisco.htm. NYC LGBT Historic Sites Project. “Tony Segura Residence.” Sites. Accessed May 24, 2022. https://www.nyclgbtsites.org/site/tony-segura-residence/. Temkin, Maria, Ivan Rodriguez, and Michael Zimny. "South River Drive Historic District." National Register of Historic Inventory-Nomination Form. Bureau of Historic Preservation, Tallahassee, August 10, 1987. https://catalog.archives.gov/id/77843163. The Social and Public Art Resource Center in LA. “The Great Wall – History and Description.” Programs. Accessed May 24, 2022. https://sparcinla.org/the-great-wall-part-2/. Tags - lgbt - lgbtq - lgbtqia - lgbtq place - lgbt history - lgbtq history - latino history - latino heritage - latino american history - american latino heritage - latino american heritage - women's history - women and the arts - places of article - places of... - los angeles - san francisco - california - new york city - new york - chicago - illinois - san juan - puerto rico - miami - florida - art - arts and culture - arts culture and education - artist - political history
### https://www.nps.gov/articles/pride-guide.htm


Pride Guide: An Interactive Workbook (U.S. National Park Service) [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.nps.gov/articles/pride-guide.htm)

> Last updated: June 13, 2019 Article Pride Guide: An Interactive Workbook In 2016, the NPS published LGBTQ America: A Theme Study of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer History, a theme study to explore the legacy and history of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) people and places. This Pride Guide provides a brief summary of each chapter of the theme study along with discussion questions and activities. The Pride Guide is an interactive resource for exploring lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) history and places in the United States. Working through the Pride Guide gives you an opportunity to learn new things, but it should also inspire you to socialize with others while listening to their thoughts and perspectives. Intended for teenagers and gay-straight alliances, this resource can also be used by adults and communities interested in learning more about the topic material. The Pride Guide may also be used by teachers to meet state standards and requirements for inclusive curricula. Gather a group of friends or peers when using The Pride Guide as the discussion questions and activities are meant to be completed with others.
### https://www.nps.gov/subjects/nationalregister/sample-nominations-areas-of-significance-social-history.htm


Sample Nominations - Areas of Significance - Social History [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.nps.gov/subjects/nationalregister/sample-nominations-areas-of-significance-social-history.htm)

> Social History: Civil Rights Holman’s Barber ShopSouth Carolina, Reference number: 100006884 Area of significance: Social History, Ethnic Heritage: Black Period of Significance: 1945-1975 Holman’s Barber Shop is significant for its representation of both Black barber shops’ and beauty salons’ important functions within African American communities, and for its connection with Columbia’s segregation history. It is one of the only mid-century Black-owned barber shops in Columbia known to still stand Holman’s provided Black Columbians and other African Americans with an alternative public space where patrons could meet, freely converse, and receive quality, convenient service without fear of the harassment and degradation that often awaited them in the white-controlled spaces of mid-century Columbia, South Carolina. Lnk to file Social History: LGBTQ Caffe CinoNew York, Reference number: 100001802 Area of Significance: Social History-LGBTQ, Performing Arts Period of Significance: 1958-1968 “The Cino,” located in a ground-floor commercial space at 31 Cornelia Street in Greenwich Village from December 1958 to March 1968, was operated by Joe Cino (1931-1967), a gay man of Sicilian heritage. This property was significant as the first venue of importance to continuously stage off-off-Broadway theater, then a newly emerging movement, and for its role in the development of gay theater and support of gay playwrights at a time when depicting homosexuality on stage was illegal. This nomination was supported by an NPS under-represented communities grant. Link to file Social History: Women’s History and Conservation Hawk Mountain Sanctuary DistrictPennsylvania, Reference number: 100007555 Area of Significance: Conservation, Social History (women’s history) Period of Significance: 1934-1987 Hawk Mountain Sanctuary located in the townships of Albany and East Brunswick, PA. The district is significant at the national level in the area of Conservation as the first raptor sanctuary in the world and as a leader in the American conservation movement of the early twentieth century, when the sanctuary played an integral role in changing public attitudes toward raptors and securing their permanent legal protection. By the 1980s, Hawk Mountain Sanctuary had become a pioneer and leader in the conservation of migratory raptors around the world, a position which it solidified and formalized with the creation of Hawks Aloft Worldwide, a global conservation initiative to amass, analyze, and distribute information on migratory raptors through the creation of an international network of independent local organizations, in 1987. Hawk Mountain Sanctuary is significant under Women’s History for the pioneering conservation work of the sanctuary’s founder, Rosalie Barrow Edge (1877–1962) with the support of the sanctuary’s first wards, Maurice Broun (1906–1977) and Irma Penniman Broun Kahn (1908–1997). Described by Broun as “the foremost woman conservationist of the twentieth century,” Edge led a crusade to reform the National Association of Audubon Societies and ushered in a new era of environmental activism. The period of significance for Hawk Mountain Sanctuary begins in 1934, when Edge leased the 1,398-acre tract of land that forms the sanctuary’s historic core and established it as a sanctuary, and ends in 1987, when the Hawk Mountain Sanctuary Association (HMSA) launched its international registry of raptor migration sightings now known as Hawks Aloft Worldwide. Link to file Social History: LGBTQ Church of the Holy ApostlesNew York, Reference number: 72000867 Area of Significance: Architecture, Religion, Social History-LGBTQ Period of Significance: 1846-1922; 1969-1977 Additional documentation was added to the original 1972 nomination, to recognize the role of this church in the formation and support of many early LGBT social, political, and religious activities for the community. Originally listed for its architectural significance as an important work of architect Minard Lefever (1846-48), the revised nomination now recognizes the church’s significance in Social History: LGBTQ History from 1969 to 1977, for its role in welcoming members of the LGBT community, for serving as New York City’s first LBGT community center, and for hosting meetings of the West Side Discussion Group, the Gay Liberation Front, and the Gay Activists Alliance, among the city’s earliest and most important activist organizations in the fight for LGBT civil rights. Holy Apostles also provided space, between 1970 and 1975, for three early LGBT religious congregations that were founded there: the Church of the Beloved Disciple, the Metropolitan Community Church of New York, and Congregation Beth (Beit) Simchat Torah, the first permanent LGBT synagogue on the East Coast. The establishment of places where groups of gay men and lesbians could meet openly and/or worship the religion of their choice in an era of open hostility toward them was important because these places served as sources of comfort, community, and stability for people who often lacked families or other sources of support. Link to file Social History Iglesia Cristiana Puerto Rico, Reference number: 100010834 Area of Significance: Architecture, Social History Period of Significance: 1922-1923 Completed in 1923, Iglesia Cristiana is significant in Social History for its role in the “Americanization” of Puerto Rico. When ruled under the Spanish flag, Puerto Rico was Catholic. The Catholic Church and the government were equal partners in administering the island. Churches and government buildings stood side-by-side on each town’s public square. After the US took over control of Puerto Rico, Protestant denominations sought to establish missions across the island. The Church of Christ established a mission in the town of Santa Isabel, eventually growing its membership enough to warrant a new, modern, Mission Revival style church building on the public square, where it joined the Catholic church and the town hall. Link to file Social History: Women’s History Omaha Star Nebraska, Reference number: 07001322 Area of Significance: Ethnic Heritage: Black, Social History (women’s history), Communications Period of Significance: 1940-1947 The nomination presents a case of significance for Ethnic ethnic Heritage heritage and Social social History history (and likely Women’s History as a subcategory) for the building that housed the most influential Black newspapers in the state. The nomination also identifies, under Criterion B, the significance of Mildred Brown, the long-time publisher. As a Black woman, her leadership was unusual at that time, and important. Link to file Last updated: September 9, 2024
### https://www.nps.gov/ston/learn/photosmultimedia/stonewall-celebrates-its-5th-anniversary.htm


Stonewall Celebrates its 5th Anniversary [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.nps.gov/ston/learn/photosmultimedia/stonewall-celebrates-its-5th-anniversary.htm)

> This video series talks about the history of the Stonewall uprising, the LGBTQ+ civil rights movement and Stonewall National Monument today. Check out these videos on our YouTube channel, or by clicking on the links below! The first episode in the 15-part series talks about Greenwich Village, the community around the Stonewall Inn, and the gay community that called Greenwich Village their home. Duration: - 5 minutes, 28 seconds - - Episode two of our 15-part series focuses on the Mafia's role in illegal gay bars and how the LGBTQ community had to survive on the streets because of the federal government's laws against them. Duration: - 5 minutes, 46 seconds - - The third video in our 15-part series talks about the Stonewall Inn being one of the last gay bars in New York that allowed dancing, how One Magazine fought for the right for people to mail material through the U.S. postal service that contained discussion of homosexuality, and the hardships that the LGBTQ community went through with NYC police. Duration: - 5 minutes, 23 seconds - - Enjoy the fourth video in our 15-part series about the Mattachine Society, Julius's Sip-In, and Bayard Rustin. Duration: - 4 minutes, 55 seconds - - The fifth video in our 15-part series is about the police raid on the Stonewall Inn, where people were when they heard the news of the uprising, who started it, and the typical activity of waiting outside of bars that were raided to watch the police bring out the arrestees. Duration: - 5 minutes, 20 seconds - - The sixth episode in our 15-part series is about the beginning stages of the crowd outside of the Stonewall pushing back against the police including many homeless LGBTQ youths. Duration: - 5 minutes, 27 seconds - - Episode 7 of our 15-part series discusses how a diverse collective of people were part of the uprising and all came together to fight against police oppression of the LGBTQ community. Duration: - 5 minutes, 6 seconds - - The eighth video in our 15-part series to honor the 5th anniversary of the establishment of Stonewall National Monument covers how the Village community was back then, the effect of Judy Garland's funeral, and Mrs. New Orleans. Duration: - 5 minutes, 54 seconds - - Please enjoy the ninth video in our 15-part series to honor the 5th anniversary of the establishment of Stonewall National Monument. This episode is about the Mattachine Society before Stonewall and the unrest in the 1960's. A new episode will be posted every Friday through October 1st. Follow #FifthAnniversaryFriday for new episodes on social media. Duration: - 5 minutes, 34 seconds - - The tenth video in our 15-part series is about the importance of the Stonewall Uprisings, the national attention that it received showed LGBTQ people across the nation that they were not alone, and the beginning stages of the creation of Stonewall National Monument. Duration: - 5 minutes, 22 seconds - - The eleventh video in our 15-part series is about the campaign techniques used to create Stonewall National Monument, the process of transferring the land from city to federal, and the concerns that people had about it becoming a national monument Duration: - 6 minutes, 1 second - - Episode 12 of our 15-part series is about the personal importance of Stonewall, how it has been used as a symbol for acceptance, and how Stonewall National Monument is an entry point into the history of the LGBTQ Civil Rights Movement. Duration: - 5 minutes, 47 seconds - - The thirteenth video in our 15-part series to honor the 5th anniversary of the establishment of Stonewall National Monument discusses how the trans community has created a larger conversation about gender roles in society, Stonewall being a place for celebrations, the transfer of Christopher Park from a City Park to a National Monument, and Stonewall being the birthplace of Pride. Duration: - 5 minutes, 25 seconds - - Episode 14 of our 15-part series is about the power of place that Stonewall National Monument gives to all of its visitors, the Gay Liberation statues in Christopher Park, and how the rangers engage with visitors at the park. Duration: - 5 minutes, 13 seconds - - The final video in our 15-part series to honor the 5th anniversary of the establishment of Stonewall National Monument is about Stonewall National Monument being a liberating experience, the impact of the Stonewall Uprisings one year later in 1970, and Stonewall National Monument marching in the NYC Pride March. Duration: - 6 minutes, 47 seconds - - |
### https://www.nps.gov/ston/learn/historyculture.htm


Stonewall National Monument (U.S. National Park Service [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.nps.gov/ston/learn/historyculture.htm)

> | A Movement Takes Shape “...there was no out, there was just in.” Through the 1960s almost everything about living openly as a lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or queer (LGBTQ) person was a violation of law, rule, or policy. New York City’s prohibitions against homosexual activities were particularly harsh. People were arrested for wearing fewer than three articles of clothing that matched their sex. Serving alcoholic beverages to homosexuals was prohibited. For married men and women who lived homosexual lives in secret, blackmail was a constant threat. Discrimination and fear were tools to isolate people when homosexuality was hidden. After Stonewall, being “out and proud” in numbers was a key strategy that strengthened the movement. Uprising Stonewall was a milestone for LGBTQ civil rights that provided momentum for a movement. In the early hours of June 28, 1969, a police raid on the Stonewall Inn provoked a spontaneous act of resistance that earned a place alongside landmarks in American self-determination such as Seneca Falls Convention for women’s rights (1848) and the Selma to Montgomery March for African American voting rights (1965). Demonstrations continued over the next several nights at Christopher Park across from the Stonewall Inn and in the surrounding neighborhood. When asked to describe the difference that Stonewall had made, journalist Eric Marcus observed that before Stonewall, “For most people, there was no out, there was just in.” Liberate Christopher Street! The agitated crowd took to the streets chanting “Gay Power!” and “Liberate Christopher Street!” LGBTQ youth who gathered at Christopher Park—some of them homeless and with little social capital—challenged police, linked arms, and formed a blockade. Police charged the crowd, but rather than disperse, the mob retreated to the neighborhood they knew well with its network of narrow, winding “And that was the impact of Stonewall.” LGBTQ History and Heritage Last updated: February 24, 2022
### https://www.nps.gov/places/furies-collective.htm


The Furies Collective (U.S. National Park Service) [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.nps.gov/places/furies-collective.htm)

> Last updated: September 3, 2024 Place The Furies Collective From 1971-1973, a modest rowhouse in Washington, DC’s Capitol Hill neighborhood was the home and operational center for twelve lesbian feminists and their lesbian, feminist, separatist group The Furies Collective. During this time, the women of the Furies Collective used their publications to address major questions of women’s identity and women’s relationships with other women, with men, and with society at large. Publishing The members of the collective demonstrated women’s independence by living together in the house, sharing domestic work, and publishing a tabloid-size newspaper called The Furies. The group launched The Furies after the galvanizing experience of publishing a lesbian feminist edition of motive magazine, a youth magazine of the United Methodist Church. The collective’s publications set the terms of debate over the ideology, strategies and tactics, and actual accomplishments of lesbian feminist separatism in the early years of newly militant gay and lesbian activism. Their first issue of The Furies proclaimed, “We believe The FURIES will make important contributions to the growing movement to destroy sexism. As a collective, in addition to outside projects, we are spending much time building an ideology which is the basis for action.” According to historian Lillian Faderman, “the Furies newspaper, which was sold at the women’s bookstores that were mushrooming across America, inspired thousands of lesbian feminists to form their own collectives in cities, farms, forests, and mountains all over America and in Europe, too.” Influence Lesbian feminist separatism influenced lesbian culture for the next two decades, inspiring the creation of a women’s culture and a national network of woman-owned businesses, women artists, and feminist thinkers. Within the LGBTQ civil rights movement, lesbian feminism paralleled gay liberation, with both eventually joining to form the contemporary LGBTQ movement. The Furies Collective and its publications folded after only a few years, but its members remained committed to lesbian feminist activism. Former Furies members went on to play influential roles in gay commercial media, art, literature, feminism, and gay civil rights. They established several women-focused organizations including the nation’s first independent feminist publishers The Diana Press, and the women’s music production company Olivia Records which later became the LGBTQ+ cruise line Olivia (still in operation in 2024). Designation The two-story row house in the Capitol Hill area of Washington, DC was recognized on the DC Inventory of Historic Sites in January 2016, and added to the National Register of Historic Places on May 2, 2016. National Register of Historic Places information: Property Name: The Furies Collective Reference Number: 16000211 State: District of Columbia County: District of Columbia Town: Washington Street Address: 219 11th St., SE Multiple Property Submission Name: N/A Status: Listed 05/02/2016 Areas of Significance: Social History
### https://www.nps.gov/subjects/tellingallamericansstories/pride-guide.htm


The Pride Guide: An Interactive Workbook [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.nps.gov/subjects/tellingallamericansstories/pride-guide.htm)

> In 2016, the NPS published LGBTQ America: A Theme Study of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer History, a theme study to explore the legacy and history of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) people and places. This Pride Guide provides a brief summary of each chapter of the theme study along with discussion questions and activities. The Pride Guide is an interactive resource for exploring lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) history and places in the United States. Working through the Pride Guide gives you an opportunity to learn new things, but it should also inspire you to socialize with others while listening to their thoughts and perspectives. Intended for teenagers and gay-straight alliances, this resource can also be used by adults and communities interested in learning more about the topic material. The Pride Guide may also be used by teachers to meet state standards and requirements for inclusive curricula. Gather a group of friends or peers when using The Pride Guide as the discussion questions and activities are meant to be completed with others.
## [NPS.gov  (U.S. National Park Service)](home.nps.gov): ~14 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://home.nps.gov/subjects/tellingallamericansstories/lgbtqheritage.htm


Telling All Americans' Stories (U.S. National Park Service [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://home.nps.gov/subjects/tellingallamericansstories/lgbtqheritage.htm)

> "The world changes in direct proportion to the number of people willing to be honest about their lives." -- Armistead Maupin As America’s storytellers, the National Park Service (NPS) is committed to telling the history of all Americans in all of its diversity and complexity. For many years, the rich histories of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer Americans have been erased through punishing laws and general prejudice—appearing sporadically in police proceedings, medical reports, military hearings, and immigration records. Yet, for many LGBTQ groups, preserving and interpreting their past has been an important part of building communities and mutual support. Because of their efforts, we can find LGBTQ histories across the United States—from private residences, hotels, bars, and government agencies to hospitals, parks, and community centers. From the mujerado of the Acoma and Laguna tribes to the drag queens of the Stonewall riots, discover their stories in our nation’s parks, homes, and historic sites. Read more » Duration: - 11 minutes, 59 seconds - This World AIDS Day we collaborated with Golden Gate National Recreation Area to tell the story of artist and activist Gilbert Baker! The LGBTQ+ community has a long history of intertwining art and protest to combat discrimination and erasure. Please enjoy our program about how the Rainbow Flag and Gilbert Baker showcases this connection from San Francisco to New York City. Explore LGBTQ Heritage LGBTQ HeritagePlacesLearn about parks and other places associated with LGBTQ history in America - LGBTQ HeritagePeopleLearn about LGBTQ people and their role in American history - LGBTQ HeritageTheme StudyLGBTQ history is American history. Read "LGBTQ America: A Theme Study of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer History" here - LGBTQ HeritagePride GuideAn interactive workbook to accompany the theme study or to use on its own - LGBTQ HeritageStonewall StorytimeThis teen+ program offers a Stonewall Uprising narrative plus guidance to facilitate a conversation about universal themes and values. - LGBTQ HeritageEducation ResourcesEducation resources on LGBTQ history and heritage in the United States - LGBTQ HeritageAdditional ResourcesFind more resources here about LGBTQ history and heritage - Discover More LGBTQ Stories Last updated: June 1, 2022