



# [Website Unavailable - Paths Remembered](pathsremembered.org): ~3 pages censored since 1/20/25

## https://www.pathsremembered.org/providers/


Providers [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.pathsremembered.org/providers/)

> What do your Two Spirit and LGBTQ patients need from you? Our Two Spirit and LGBTQ+ relatives may forego healthcare when clinicians and clinical environments are not affirming. Furthermore, traumatic experiences with discrimination and invisibilization in clinical settings can prevent our communities from accessing both life-saving preventative and gender-affirming care. Check out the following resources in order to help guide the critical work of creating affirming clinical spaces for all. Ensure your clinical and community environments are affirming for all clients, especially those who identify as trans or gender-diverse, by accessing tips, tools, and sample policies in our Trans & Gender-Affirming Care Strategic Vision and Action Plan (SVAP). First disseminated in 2020, this 2.0 is a 2024 release. Our 2020 SVAP was supported by the NPAIHB Tribal Delegates via resolution, and this is a newly updated version of that plan. Please complete this form if you’d like support implementing any aspect of this plan. Resources for care of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender patients Clinical guides for primary care E-learning course focused on providing culturally attuned sexual health care to 2SLGBTQ Native Americans A toolkit for collecting data on sexual orientation and gender identity in clinical settings. A Comprehensive, LGBTQ-Inclusive, Implicit-Bias-Aware, Standardized-Patient-Based Sexual History Taking Curriculum A glossary of commonly used terms and phrases created by IHS for providers Evidence-based guidelines for endocrine based therapies Overview of related health topics and goals for the federal government until 2030. Comprehensive survey and analysis pertaining to all areas of life that impact the well-being of Native transgender people The Paths (Re)Membered Project centers the Two Spirit and LGBTQ+ community–its strengths, resiliencies, and histories—in our movement toward health equity.
## https://www.pathsremembered.org/reconnecting-with-native-teachings-and-creating-healing-spaces-with-and-for-2s-lgbtq-victim-survivors-of-domestic-violence-from-the-national-indigenous-womens-resource-center/


Reconnecting with Native Teachings and Creating Healing Spaces with and for 2S+/LGBTQ+ Victim-Survivors of Domestic Violence from the National Indigenous Women’s Resource Center [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.pathsremembered.org/reconnecting-with-native-teachings-and-creating-healing-spaces-with-and-for-2s-lgbtq-victim-survivors-of-domestic-violence-from-the-national-indigenous-womens-resource-center/)

> This month’s blog article centers a toolkit created by the National Indigenous Women’s Resource Center (NIWRC) to support Two Spirit and LGBTQ+ survivors of domestic violence. We spoke to an anonymous Indigiqueer survivor about the importance of resources like this. What does it mean to you to have a resource created for Two Spirit and Indigenous LGBTQ+ survivors of domestic violence? By the end of my near-decade relationship, I wondered who I was…who I’d become. I worried I would never be able to separate my ex’s criticism of me from my own thoughts and self-talk. My ex made every attempt possible to separate me from my community. I lost friends and I lost family. The time I was able to carve out to be with my people was one of the few things that held me together and prevented me from being completely consumed. Being around other Indigenous people, especially Two Spirit folks, has always made me feel important and part of a larger legacy, meaning, and community of both joy and resistance. My people give me strength. A year before I made my mind to leave my ex for the final time, I called a local DV agency and they walked me through a safety plan. While being asked to engage with a tangible plan was helpful, it felt formulaic and soul-less…it felt white. I also sought a counselor. I was not able to find a Native counselor. My counselor was a white cis queer person. The questions he asked, and the suggestions he offered, all felt so focused on individuals and didn’t account for the impacts community would need to play in my strength and my recovery. I desperately wanted, and needed resources made for us, for Native queer people, Two Spirits. I also needed a way and a space to have the conversation with others like me without shame and stigma. I got out. I am one of the lucky ones. I really hope this toolkit, and the other resources it will inspire, make their way to folks like me so they can experience the joy of healing and freedom that I am finding for myself.We also spoke with Paula Julian, senior policy specialist with the National Indigenous Women’s Resource Center and one of the creators of this toolkit. Paula, would you introduce yourself? Sure. My name’s Paula Julian. I’m Filipina. I live and work on the lands of the Payómkawichum people, or the People of the West, on the lands of the La Jolla Indian Reservation in San Diego County, California. I’m here because my partner’s here. We coparent a 14 year old son together. My family’s here. I come into this work being raised in it by my Indigenous aunties and uncles, and brothers and sisters since I was in my twenties. I’m very thankful for all that my relatives have taught me and also recognize the responsibility, when you call yourself a relative, of doing this work in a respectful way. How did you come to the subheadings in the toolkit: centering stories, transforming shame, and culture? Back in December of 2020 and January of 2021, in partnership with sister organizations, the National LGBTQ Institute and the Avellaka Program, NIWRC organized two conversations with stakeholders and community members on this issue. We opened the conversations up to anyone who wanted to join us, to talk about how we can support families and friends to become a protective factor in the line of defense for survivors. In addition, beyond those two conversations, we invited people to continue to discuss and develop the toolkit and we formed an advisory committee. Storytelling, overcoming shame, and the protective factor of Indigenous cultures came up continuously in those meetings. The advisory committee agreed graciously to record some of their own survivor stories, which we documented in a Restoration Magazine article from our June edition of last year. Why did this toolkit feel imperative to create now? We felt compelled to develop this toolkit for family and friends, because loving and accepting friends and families—those that we’re born into and those that we adopt and or who adopt us—are the best healing and safety net for survivors. Now more than ever, with all that we’ve been experiencing and seeing in Indigenous communities and our society, we need to center the importance of Indigenous teachings around what it means to be a relative—love and understanding, respect and full acceptance. That is what is going to help with responding to fear, abuse, violence, and trauma. One of our movement leaders, Tillie Black Bear, who passed away in 2014, always talked about what it means to be a relative and what it means to be an advocate, how the two are similar. It means that you walk and talk within that role. You don’t get paid for being a relative. It’s 24/7. Whatever survivors ask for, you figure out how to secure it. If your relative needs something, you don’t say, “Oh, I’m sorry, I can’t take care of that right now.” When your relatives need help, they need help now. We know friends can be a first line of defense for survivors. We don’t always have formal, affirming programs to support 2SLGBTQ+ survivors, so we wanted families and friends to have something to help them be that line of defense and protection for survivors, to prevent further violence. Find the toolkit here: https://www.niwrc.org/resources/toolkit/reconnecting-native-teachings-and-creating-healing-spaces-and-2slgbtq-victim
## https://www.pathsremembered.org/just-check-in-talking-about-well-being-with-two-spirit-lgbtq-elders/


“Just Check In”: Talking about Well-being with Two Spirit LGBTQ+ Elders [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.pathsremembered.org/just-check-in-talking-about-well-being-with-two-spirit-lgbtq-elders/)

> Sadé Heart of the Hawk: I am Mi’kmaq First Nation from a small reserve in Nova Scotia, Canada. I’m presently living on the land of the Quinnipiac in Connecticut. I’m the Tribal Lead for the Zero Suicide Institute and as such, I get a chance to work with our people all over Turtle Island. I am a Two Spirit elder and medicine keeper of the New England States Two Spirit Society. I just started my 75th rotation around Grandfather Sun and still work full time, still dance competitively, still make my regalia. I’m living my best life. Bill Hall: I am a Tlingit Indian from Southeast Alaska. I’m of the Raven clan. I have been living with HIV since 1986. I am an elder for the Urban Indian Health Institute and a community advocate for the Native American community on HIV. In this moment, what most contributes to your health and well-being? Sadé: All you have to do is look in my closet and see how many ribbon skirts I’ve made to know how challenged I’ve been in the past two years by the isolation away from our people, away from our gatherings. So many things have been canceled, so many things I depend on for connection with my community and with other Two Spirit people. It’s been extremely hard on me. We’re relational people, we depend on each other. Our ceremonies, our gatherings, our talking circles and sweat lodges—all of the medicine has not been available to us. It’s been really hard on me and other old ones like me. It’s starting to return. Montana had their Two Spirit Gathering for the first time live this past August. They had taken COVID precautions—you had to wear masks, and they had to check your temperature every single day, and you had to show your vaccination card. BAAITS is going to do their powwow live in February, and I will be there. But they’re doing a hybrid so we’re not going to get the thousands of people we usually get. It’s been extremely hard, extremely hard. Bill: Even pre COVID isolation was a huge problem for elders in the gay community. That’s part of the gay culture. People ask me why I don’t go to the bars anymore. Well, the gay culture is if you’re not young, beautiful, and buff, you’re invisible. On top of the health problems that our older generation is suffering from already, they isolate, and they get stuck in that isolation. COVID has really exacerbated the isolation, especially if you live alone, and you have to shelter alone. It’s been a rough two years for me because pre-COVID I was so involved with many groups. I went to meetings. I was constantly going to seminars, conferences, speaking engagements, and it just stopped all of a sudden. And because of my age, I had to isolate. COVID affected the elderly more drastically. So the loneliness and depression have been really difficult to deal with. I’m not used to being alone so much. When everything stopped, it was culture shock for me. How can community step up to help fill that gap and combat that isolation? Sadé: Every once in a while, I’ll put on my Facebook page a little picture—three elders with long hair flowing behind them. Not male, not female, just elders. And I say, Check in. Check in with an elder. Say hello. People don’t realize how appreciative we are of that, of people just saying, “How are you doing?” “I’m thinking about you.” Facebook has been a blessing for many of us. I’ve been part of a number of elder/youth circles, where the elders are teaching the youth and the youth are sharing their knowledge, and there’s this beautiful interaction between the young ones and our elders. Having the opportunity for the children, for the young ones and the old ones, to actually listen to each other is a beautiful thing. I did something like that at the Montana Two Spirit Gathering in August. I set up two lines—a line of young Two Spirit and a line of elder Two Spirit people, and I had them talking to each other, responding to questions; the youth telling the elders what they want to know, the elders telling the youth they have a place in the circle. It was very powerful. I think social media is our key in these days, because we don’t know what’s going to happen or when it’s going to happen, or if it’s going to happen, if we’ll ever have a new normal. We really need to be creative about ways in which we can mitigate some of this isolation we’re feeling and some of this depression that comes with it. I’m an “FBI,” a Facebook Indian. I love it. Some people hate it, but it’s been a blessing for me in this time, because we can stay connected. Kids know how to navigate that space. They took Gathering of Nations and put it online, so we could all watch. I thought that was wonderful Bill: I agree. For me what helps is people checking in on me. Calling me or emailing me or texting me to ask, How am I doing? Do I need anything? Do I want them to go to the store for me? That has really helped. It’s amazing, a text will come in right when I’m feeling the lowest, and I’ll feel my mood change. It’s been a long two years, and that has really been a blessing to me. Zoom meetings, too, keep me kind of connected. There are still long periods of time where I’m just sitting alone watching movies, so I enjoy that outside contact of a phone call or a text. Anything else you’d want our readers to know about the health and well-being of Two Spirit and LGBTQ+ elders? Sadé: There hasn’t been a whole lot of attention to Two Spirit and LGBTQ+ elders. People think if you are an Indigenous person and over the age of 60 or 70, you’re seen as a wisdom keeper, a knowledge keeper, someone to be treasured in your tribe. But that doesn’t always hold true for Two Spirit people. We don’t all live on our ancestral lands, and if we do, many of our Tribes are acculturated. In the boarding/residential schools, our people were taught there was something fundamentally wrong with us as Indigenous people and something even more wrong with us if we were Two Spirit. So yeah, it’s wonderful to be an elder. And it’s beautiful for me to be Two Spirit. However, not everyone sees that beauty. Our Two Spirit elders need to feel that we’re honored and respected not just because we’re old, but also because we’re Two Spirit and were once considered sacred. Bill: I agree a lot with what Sadé said. I was raised in boarding school, having been taken away from my family when I was nine years old. It really is difficult to be an elder. We may not be accepted by all of the community, but there are a large number of Two Spirit people we can pass on our wisdom to. We know the way.