



# [psc.gov](psc.gov): ~1 pages censored since 1/20/25

## https://dcp.psc.gov/OSG/sogdag/default.aspx


Office of Surgeon General (OSG) [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://dcp.psc.gov/OSG/sogdag/default.aspx)

> Home Sexual Orientation and Gender Diversity Advisory Group (SOAGDAG) Mission To provide advice and consultation to and on behalf of the United States Public Health Service (USPHS or PHS) Commissioned Corps Surgeon General on the following: Issues of interest to and concern of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer officers and officers with other gender identities (hereafter, "LGBTQ+), as well as their allies in the USPHS Commissioned Corps, - Issues relating to USPHS Commissioned Corps personnel policies and practices relevant to LGBTQ+ officers, and - Provision of LGBTQ+-competent health care by USPHS Commissioned Corps healthcare providers. - Membership We invite you to join the Sexual Orientation and Gender Diversity Advisory Group (SOAGDAG) in its endeavors to expand the visibility, impact, and role of LGBTQ+ Officers in the USPHS and raise awareness about critical public health issues the LGBTQ+ community. SOAGDAG membership consists of voting and non-voting members. There may be up to 20 voting members, and an unlimited number of non-voting members. All non-voting members are welcome to serve on committees and be active in helping SOAGDAG achieve its mission. Currently, voting members are nominated and appointed to SOAGDAG. Voting members must be: Active Duty Commissioned Corps Officers who meet basic readiness standards. - Interested in LGBTQ+ Issues to further the SOAGDAG mission. - Actively participating in a SOAGDAG committee while serving as a voting member. - Subscribe to the SOAGDAG Listserv In addition to participating in our meetings and committees we also want to encourage you to join our Listserv, as this is the primary way we communicate with our fellow officers. You may subscribe or change your email address (government or official work emails only) for the SOAGDAG Listserv: http://go.usa.gov/xkSv9 . Helpful Links and Information Updates This is the first RSS/News Feed for the osg site. What our feed for updates on our activities. Tue, 17 Mar 2015 06:14:00 EST Page Last Modified on 4/3/2023