



# [rfa.org](rfa.org): ~11 pages censored since 1/20/25

## [Activists sue China's education ministry over rainbow flag reprimand](https://www.rfa.org/english/news/china/lgbtq-03312023131243.html)


> Activists sue China's education ministry over rainbow flag reprimand 2023.04.01 Two LGBTQ+ students from Beijing's Tsinghua University have lodged an administrative lawsuit against China's Ministry of Education after being harassed and threatened by the authorities over their sexuality. In May 2022, Huang and Li bought 10 rainbow flags on the auction site Taobao, and left them on a small table in a campus supermarket, with a note that read: "Please take one #PRIDE." The pair, who asked to be identified by pseudonyms for fear of further reprisals, had already given a great deal of thought to what they knew was a highly risky action. They considered posting about the flags on social media, but they knew the authorities would be able to track them down, as they had been forced to use their real names to sign up for an account. Then they remembered an anti-fascist poster that had mysteriously appeared on the wall of the campus supermarket, and that the lack of surveillance cameras in the area had meant the students who put it there were never found. It wasn't until they had already put the flags in place that they realized that cameras had now been installed in the area, leaving them "terrified" over what would happen next. But Huang told herself that 10 rainbow flags wasn't going to have a massive impact on the life of the university. Within two hours, they were getting calls from school officials wanting to talk to them about the flags, and warning them that the incident could affect their chances of graduating, and threatening them with possible expulsion. They refused to meet with officials, who then went and found them in their respective dorm rooms, accusing them of "distributing prohibited propaganda material." By June 30, they had been issued with notification of punishment, and submitted a written defense to the student affairs office in accordance with school procedures. The school responded in July with disciplinary action in the form of a "severe warning," which would remain on their official file and affect their chances of pursuing scholarships, further study or jobs working for the government. ‘I knew I was doing the right thing’ Huang and Li were furious, and vowed to fight back. "I was in a state of anger every day," Li said. "But I knew I was doing the right thing, so I didn't feel scared." "It felt more as if I was getting some good practice in how to defend my own dignity, and that of my companion, and in not backing down." They went public with the incident on July 18, posting to WeChat that they were being punished for the rainbow flag incident, in a post that garnered more than 100,000 views and which was later deleted by government censors. By the end of the month, they had filed an official complaint with the university, which upheld the original disciplinary action. So they took it further, lodging a complaint with the Beijing municipal education commission, arguing that they had left the flags for people to pick up, rather than distributing them, and that rainbow flags aren't illegal in China. But the response from the government was the same as that of the university. Li, the child of a middle-class family, had been greatly affected by her experience of lockdown in the central city of Wuhan in the spring of 2020, in the early days of the COVID-19 pandemic. "I knew that a lot of people in my [residential] community had died, and I was affected by knowing that my neighbors were dying," she said. "Since then, I've had no illusions about the current system at all." The formal warnings issued to Huang and Li expired after six months, but that wasn't good enough for the two friends, who wanted to dispel the notion that it is wrong to fly a rainbow flag. "It's a matter of our reputation," Huang said. "By punishing us, the school made a lot of people feel that we did something disgraceful." "We also want to do some public advocacy on this matter, and start a public discussion about sexual minorities in universities," she said. So Huang and Li took their lawsuit all the way to the top, lodging an administrative lawsuit with the Ministry of Education, and calling on its officials to review their case. "We have to take the legal process all the way, so that this winds up in the legal archives, in the media and in online archives," Li said. "I believe that history will eventually judge us fairly." "For me, this is a political declaration, and I have to take it all the way, or I wouldn't be able to live with myself," she said. But both activists still feared possible retaliation from the authorities. Huang wrote to her family coming out as a lesbian, and detailing all of her actions and the reasoning behind them since May 2022, with a view to sending it if the police came looking for her. They submitted their case to the Beijing No. 1 Intermediate People's Court on Feb. 20, and have yet to receive a response. Party views on LGBTQ+ activists The ruling Chinese Communist Party currently regards LGBTQ+ rights activists as being influenced by "hostile foreign forces” seeking to undermine its rule, and openly queer public figures are gradually disappearing from mainstream media, film and television under the watchful eye of government censors. Huang and Li, who met at a queer book club and put the flags out to mark the International Day Against Homophobia, Biphobia, Lesbophobia and Transphobia on May 17, came to a realization of their own sexuality in a piecemeal way, despite having been raised amid government propaganda that there was something wrong or shameful about it. Huang used to hold similar views, recalling that she once had disapproved of a friend who kissed another woman. "Then I became gay myself," she said with a laugh. "It was while I was watching the TV show Dragon Gate Guards, which had a particularly gorgeous actress in it, that I realized I'm into girls." Li remembers being queer from an early age, but not having a name for it. She first heard the letters "LGBT" in an English class, given as vocabulary by a foreign teacher, and remembers realizing that her attractions "had a name." By the time Huang asked her why she had joined the queer book club, she was able to reply with confidence: "Because I'm queer." For all Huang and Li's bravery, LGBTQ+ activists continue to be targeted by the authorities, both for activism related to their own rights, and in wider crackdowns on political opposition. Authorities in China held feminist and LGBTQ+ activist and Tsinghua alumna Guo Yi for months after she stuck up posters repeating the protest slogans hung from a Beijing traffic overpass in October by Peng Lifa, known as the "Bridge Man" protester, a rights group has reported. LGBTQ+ activists were also among dozens of young Chinese -- many of them women -- detained for taking part in November’s "white paper" protests, which emerged out of frustration over zero-COVID restrictions, curbs on freedom of speech and out of solidarity with the Uyghur victims of a fatal lockdown fire in an apartment building in Xinjiang's regional capital of Urumqi. And last September, authorities in the eastern province of Shandong sent an investigative team to an arts university to probe the suicide death of Gao Yan, a rising dance star who was also an out gay man, amid allegations that he was bullied by faculty. And while some Chinese cities have had a flourishing, though unofficial, gay scene for many years, pride marches have been suppressed under Communist Party leader Xi Jinping, and some Chinese institutions still engage in the abusive and outdated practice of "conversion therapy." Changing climate for LGBTQ+ culture In 2021, the social media platform WeChat deleted dozens of accounts belonging to LGBTQ+ groups at universities, in what activists said was evidence of a "changing climate" for LGBTQ+, or "comrade", culture. "By 2018, 2019, a lot of college LGBTQ+ associations were being targeted by school Communist Party Youth League and Communist Party committees for interviews and other kinds of pressure," activist Wu Feiming said. "They began to be closely monitored." "By 2019, 2020, a lot of college associations had been canceled, moved underground, or were lying dormant," Wu said. At Fudan, the Zhihe Society, which once staged The Vagina Monologues, has been forced to cut ties with the university, while a lot of groups have changed their names to avoid constant harassment. One of its members, Li Boran, said that while there is still plenty of social tolerance, official tolerance is fast disappearing. "There have been more and more tolerant voices emerging in society in the [past] 10 years," Li said. "I am out to most of my classmates." "But with political pressure constantly stepping up, I don't know if that can continue." Activist Peng Yanhui said he wasn't optimistic about the outcome for Li and Huang's lawsuit. "Maybe if it was a few years ago, you could file a lawsuit like that, but now, I'm not so sure," Peng said. "Before 2018, cases linked to LGBTQ+ rights could at least get some kind of procedural justice, and spark public debate." "But it's still very encouraging," he added. "At least schools may not move so quickly to issue punishments when dealing with similar incidents in future." Based on a collaborative report by RFA's Mandarin Service and The Reporter, a Taiwan-based investigative magazine. Interviewees' names have been changed at their request. Translated by Luisetta Mudie.
## [Activists sue China's education ministry over rainbow flag reprimand](https://www.rfa.org/english/news/china/lgbtq-03312023131243.html/@@images/3ef47b51-7337-4ea5-b1ae-7d1496010113.jpeg)


> Two LGBTQ+ students from Beijing's Tsinghua University have lodged an administrative lawsuit against China's Ministry of Education after being harassed and threatened by the authorities over their sexuality. In May 2022, Huang and Li bought 10 rainbow flags on the auction site Taobao, and left them on a small table in a campus supermarket, with a note that read: "Please take one #PRIDE." The pair, who asked to be identified by pseudonyms for fear of further reprisals, had already given a great deal of thought to what they knew was a highly risky action. They considered posting about the flags on social media, but they knew the authorities would be able to track them down, as they had been forced to use their real names to sign up for an account. Then they remembered an anti-fascist poster that had mysteriously appeared on the wall of the campus supermarket, and that the lack of surveillance cameras in the area had meant the students who put it there were never found. It wasn't until they had already put the flags in place that they realized that cameras had now been installed in the area, leaving them "terrified" over what would happen next. But Huang told herself that 10 rainbow flags wasn't going to have a massive impact on the life of the university. Within two hours, they were getting calls from school officials wanting to talk to them about the flags, and warning them that the incident could affect their chances of graduating, and threatening them with possible expulsion. They refused to meet with officials, who then went and found them in their respective dorm rooms, accusing them of "distributing prohibited propaganda material." By June 30, they had been issued with notification of punishment, and submitted a written defense to the student affairs office in accordance with school procedures. The school responded in July with disciplinary action in the form of a "severe warning," which would remain on their official file and affect their chances of pursuing scholarships, further study or jobs working for the government. ‘I knew I was doing the right thing’ Huang and Li were furious, and vowed to fight back. "I was in a state of anger every day," Li said. "But I knew I was doing the right thing, so I didn't feel scared." "It felt more as if I was getting some good practice in how to defend my own dignity, and that of my companion, and in not backing down." They went public with the incident on July 18, posting to WeChat that they were being punished for the rainbow flag incident, in a post that garnered more than 100,000 views and which was later deleted by government censors. By the end of the month, they had filed an official complaint with the university, which upheld the original disciplinary action. So they took it further, lodging a complaint with the Beijing municipal education commission, arguing that they had left the flags for people to pick up, rather than distributing them, and that rainbow flags aren't illegal in China. But the response from the government was the same as that of the university. Li, the child of a middle-class family, had been greatly affected by her experience of lockdown in the central city of Wuhan in the spring of 2020, in the early days of the COVID-19 pandemic. "I knew that a lot of people in my [residential] community had died, and I was affected by knowing that my neighbors were dying," she said. "Since then, I've had no illusions about the current system at all." The formal warnings issued to Huang and Li expired after six months, but that wasn't good enough for the two friends, who wanted to dispel the notion that it is wrong to fly a rainbow flag. "It's a matter of our reputation," Huang said. "By punishing us, the school made a lot of people feel that we did something disgraceful." "We also want to do some public advocacy on this matter, and start a public discussion about sexual minorities in universities," she said. So Huang and Li took their lawsuit all the way to the top, lodging an administrative lawsuit with the Ministry of Education, and calling on its officials to review their case. "We have to take the legal process all the way, so that this winds up in the legal archives, in the media and in online archives," Li said. "I believe that history will eventually judge us fairly." "For me, this is a political declaration, and I have to take it all the way, or I wouldn't be able to live with myself," she said. But both activists still feared possible retaliation from the authorities. Huang wrote to her family coming out as a lesbian, and detailing all of her actions and the reasoning behind them since May 2022, with a view to sending it if the police came looking for her. They submitted their case to the Beijing No. 1 Intermediate People's Court on Feb. 20, and have yet to receive a response. Party views on LGBTQ+ activists The ruling Chinese Communist Party currently regards LGBTQ+ rights activists as being influenced by "hostile foreign forces” seeking to undermine its rule, and openly queer public figures are gradually disappearing from mainstream media, film and television under the watchful eye of government censors. Huang and Li, who met at a queer book club and put the flags out to mark the International Day Against Homophobia, Biphobia, Lesbophobia and Transphobia on May 17, came to a realization of their own sexuality in a piecemeal way, despite having been raised amid government propaganda that there was something wrong or shameful about it. Huang used to hold similar views, recalling that she once had disapproved of a friend who kissed another woman. "Then I became gay myself," she said with a laugh. "It was while I was watching the TV show Dragon Gate Guards, which had a particularly gorgeous actress in it, that I realized I'm into girls." Li remembers being queer from an early age, but not having a name for it. She first heard the letters "LGBT" in an English class, given as vocabulary by a foreign teacher, and remembers realizing that her attractions "had a name." By the time Huang asked her why she had joined the queer book club, she was able to reply with confidence: "Because I'm queer." For all Huang and Li's bravery, LGBTQ+ activists continue to be targeted by the authorities, both for activism related to their own rights, and in wider crackdowns on political opposition. Authorities in China held feminist and LGBTQ+ activist and Tsinghua alumna Guo Yi for months after she stuck up posters repeating the protest slogans hung from a Beijing traffic overpass in October by Peng Lifa, known as the "Bridge Man" protester, a rights group has reported. LGBTQ+ activists were also among dozens of young Chinese -- many of them women -- detained for taking part in November's "white paper" protests, which emerged out of frustration over zero-COVID restrictions, curbs on freedom of speech and out of solidarity with the Uyghur victims of a fatal lockdown fire in an apartment building in Xinjiang's regional capital of Urumqi. And last September, authorities in the eastern province of Shandong sent an investigative team to an arts university to probe the suicide death of Gao Yan, a rising dance star who was also an out gay man, amid allegations that he was bullied by faculty. And while some Chinese cities have had a flourishing, though unofficial, gay scene for many years, pride marches have been suppressed under Communist Party leader Xi Jinping, and some Chinese institutions still engage in the abusive and outdated practice of "conversion therapy." Changing climate for LGBTQ+ culture In 2021, the social media platform WeChat deleted dozens of accounts belonging to LGBTQ+ groups at universities, in what activists said was evidence of a " changing climate" for LGBTQ+, or "comrade", culture. "By 2018, 2019, a lot of college LGBTQ+ associations were being targeted by school Communist Party Youth League and Communist Party committees for interviews and other kinds of pressure," activist Wu Feiming said. "They began to be closely monitored." "By 2019, 2020, a lot of college associations had been canceled, moved underground, or were lying dormant," Wu said. At Fudan, the Zhihe Society, which once staged The Vagina Monologues, has been forced to cut ties with the university, while a lot of groups have changed their names to avoid constant harassment. One of its members, Li Boran, said that while there is still plenty of social tolerance, official tolerance is fast disappearing. "There have been more and more tolerant voices emerging in society in the [past] 10 years," Li said. "I am out to most of my classmates." "But with political pressure constantly stepping up, I don't know if that can continue." Activist Peng Yanhui said he wasn't optimistic about the outcome for Li and Huang's lawsuit. "Maybe if it was a few years ago, you could file a lawsuit like that, but now, I'm not so sure," Peng said. "Before 2018, cases linked to LGBTQ+ rights could at least get some kind of procedural justice, and spark public debate." "But it's still very encouraging," he added. "At least schools may not move so quickly to issue punishments when dealing with similar incidents in future." Based on a collaborative report by RFA's Mandarin Service and The Reporter, a Taiwan-based investigative magazine. Interviewees' names have been changed at their request. Translated by Luisetta Mudie .
## [Chinese censors shut down key LGBTQ+ social media accounts](https://www.rfa.org/english/news/china/lgbtq-sites-08242023154244.html/ampRFA)


> Chinese censors shut down key LGBTQ+ social media accounts Tencent's social media platform WeChat permanently closes 6 major accounts. By Gu Ting for RFA Mandarin 2023-08-24 - - - - Chinese government censors have shut down key LGBTQ+ social media accounts in a further crackdown on sexual minorities. Public accounts for the Beijing Lala Salon, Wandouhuang, Transtory, Outstanding Partners, Ace and the Flying Cat Brotherhood were shuttered on the eve of Chinese Valentine's Day on Aug. 22, veteran activist Li Tingting said. "Such accounts have been targeted once before two or three years ago," said Li, who is better known in feminist circles as Li Maizi. "The government departments in charge of internet management have always targeted accounts linked to sexual minorities, which aren't encouraged by the Chinese government." She said not all of the accounts were linked to LGBTQ+ groups – some were more broadly feminist. The move comes after Chinese officials removed an LGBTQ+ anthem titled "Rainbow" by Taiwanese pop star A-Mei from her setlist from a concert earlier this month in Beijing, while security guards forced fans turning up for the gig to remove clothing and other paraphernalia bearing the rainbow symbol before going in, according to media reports. Sherry Zhang, who goes by the stage name A-Mei, wrote the song for all of her lesbian, gay, bisexual, transexual and questioning friends, and it is frequently heard at Pride events in Taiwan. Her fans among the LGBTQ+ community often turn up and wave rainbow flags or wear rainbow clothing in a show of solidarity, confident that the song will make an appearance. Li, who was among five Chinese feminists detained ahead of International Women's Day in 2016 for planning a campaign against sexual harassment on public transport, added: "The accounts targeted included the Beijing queer women's center Lala Salon, Wandouhuang, which is a feminist platform." Advocacy and Promotion She said the Flying Cat Brotherhood was a gay men's group, while censors had also targeted the transgender account Transtory and Ace, a group representing asexuals. The Wandouhuang artists' group was set up by Toni, Mengxia and Xiao Lufei, who all graduated from the Maryland Institute of Art in 2019, according to a bio that was still visible online on Wednesday. Beijing Lala Salon was set up in November 2004 as a non-government organization offering social activities for lesbians, to advocate for LGBTQ+ rights and to promote lesbian culture. Its account on the social media platform Weibo was still visible on Thursday, but displayed no content. They had offered literary and social events, film and television screenings, forums, lectures and a drama group. Li said she once volunteered for the group as a project manager around 10 years ago. "I felt as if [the authorities] are ticking these tasks off a list," she said. ‘Orders from higher up’ A Shanghai-based lesbian who declined to give her name for fear of reprisals said she had been a member of Transtory and Ace. "There must have been orders from higher up banning lesbians, gays and transgender folk," she said. "It's about awareness of one's own gender, and what gender you think you are." LGBTQ+ and health rights activist Lu Jun, who now lives in New York, said that was likely. "It may seem that it's Tencent shutting down these WeChat accounts, why would they do that?" Lu said. "It must be that the authorities issued an administrative order, which means that Tencent would break the law if it didn't block these accounts." "This is the will of the authorities." He said the move is a violation of the right to free speech, but also of LGBTQ+ rights. In April, two LGBTQ+ students from Beijing's Tsinghua University lodged an administrative lawsuit against China's Ministry of Education after being harassed and threatened by the authorities for leaving rainbow flags out for people to take in a campus supermarket. While homosexuality was decriminalized in China in 1997, and removed from official psychiatric diagnostic manuals in 2001, ruling Chinese Communist Party leader Xi Jinping has ushered in a far more conservative attitude to sexuality than his predecessors. Activists have said the crackdown stems in part from the government's fear of civil organizations as a threat to party rule. Translated by Luisetta Mudie. Edited by Malcolm Foster.
## [Chinese censors shut down key LGBTQ+ social media accounts](https://www.rfa.org/english/news/china/lgbtq-sites-08242023154244.html)


> Chinese censors shut down key LGBTQ+ social media accounts 2023.08.24 Chinese government censors have shut down key LGBTQ+ social media accounts in a further crackdown on sexual minorities. Public accounts for the Beijing Lala Salon, Wandouhuang, Transtory, Outstanding Partners, Ace and the Flying Cat Brotherhood were shuttered on the eve of Chinese Valentine's Day on Aug. 22, veteran activist Li Tingting said. "Such accounts have been targeted once before two or three years ago," said Li, who is better known in feminist circles as Li Maizi. "The government departments in charge of internet management have always targeted accounts linked to sexual minorities, which aren't encouraged by the Chinese government." She said not all of the accounts were linked to LGBTQ+ groups – some were more broadly feminist. The move comes after Chinese officials removed an LGBTQ+ anthem titled "Rainbow" by Taiwanese pop star A-Mei from her setlist from a concert earlier this month in Beijing, while security guards forced fans turning up for the gig to remove clothing and other paraphernalia bearing the rainbow symbol before going in, according to media reports. Sherry Zhang, who goes by the stage name A-Mei, wrote the song for all of her lesbian, gay, bisexual, transexual and questioning friends, and it is frequently heard at Pride events in Taiwan. Her fans among the LGBTQ+ community often turn up and wave rainbow flags or wear rainbow clothing in a show of solidarity, confident that the song will make an appearance. Li, who was among five Chinese feminists detained ahead of International Women's Day in 2016 for planning a campaign against sexual harassment on public transport, added: "The accounts targeted included the Beijing queer women's center Lala Salon, Wandouhuang, which is a feminist platform." Advocacy and Promotion She said the Flying Cat Brotherhood was a gay men's group, while censors had also targeted the transgender account Transtory and Ace, a group representing asexuals. The Wandouhuang artists' group was set up by Toni, Mengxia and Xiao Lufei, who all graduated from the Maryland Institute of Art in 2019, according to a bio that was still visible online on Wednesday. Beijing Lala Salon was set up in November 2004 as a non-government organization offering social activities for lesbians, to advocate for LGBTQ+ rights and to promote lesbian culture. Its account on the social media platform Weibo was still visible on Thursday, but displayed no content. They had offered literary and social events, film and television screenings, forums, lectures and a drama group. Li said she once volunteered for the group as a project manager around 10 years ago. "I felt as if [the authorities] are ticking these tasks off a list," she said. ‘Orders from higher up’ A Shanghai-based lesbian who declined to give her name for fear of reprisals said she had been a member of Transtory and Ace. "There must have been orders from higher up banning lesbians, gays and transgender folk," she said. "It's about awareness of one's own gender, and what gender you think you are." LGBTQ+ and health rights activist Lu Jun, who now lives in New York, said that was likely. "It may seem that it's Tencent shutting down these WeChat accounts, why would they do that?" Lu said. "It must be that the authorities issued an administrative order, which means that Tencent would break the law if it didn't block these accounts." "This is the will of the authorities." He said the move is a violation of the right to free speech, but also of LGBTQ+ rights. In April, two LGBTQ+ students from Beijing's Tsinghua University lodged an administrative lawsuit against China's Ministry of Education after being harassed and threatened by the authorities for leaving rainbow flags out for people to take in a campus supermarket. While homosexuality was decriminalized in China in 1997, and removed from official psychiatric diagnostic manuals in 2001, ruling Chinese Communist Party leader Xi Jinping has ushered in a far more conservative attitude to sexuality than his predecessors. Activists have said the crackdown stems in part from the government's fear of civil organizations as a threat to party rule. Translated by Luisetta Mudie. Edited by Malcolm Foster.
## [LGBTQ+-themed song is removed from Jolin Tsai's Changsha gig](https://www.rfa.org/english/news/china/china-lgbtq-song-removed-09062023145503.html/ampRFA)


> LGBTQ+-themed song is removed from Jolin Tsai's Changsha gig The song commemorates a Taiwanese teenager who died after being bullied in school for appearing 'feminine.' - By Hsia Hsiao-hwa for RFA Mandarin 2023-09-06 - - - Authorities in the central Chinese city of Changsha removed an LGBTQ+-themed song from the setlist of Taiwanese pop star Jolin Tsai, according to her publicity team. Tsai's song "Womxnly" – which commemorates a Taiwanese teenager who was found dead in a school toilet after being bullied by classmates for his "feminine" appearance – is nearly always included in her shows, and has become an anthem for the island's lesbian, gay, bisexual, transexual and questioning community. Unconfirmed social media reports said officials in the southern city of Guangzhou had already denied the singer the use of a rainbow spotlight during the song. By the time Tsai and her entourage reached Changsha, the song had been cut from the setlist entirely. "2023 Sep 2nd Jolin Tsai Ugly Beauty Tour in Changsha. Womxnly is not performed during this show," a Jolin Tsai fan account on X, formerly Twitter, reported on Sept. 3. An entry on the singer's publicity website added: "The setlist included 42 songs. Womxnly was scrapped, most likely because of censorship…" The song, penned by Tsai and rapper Razor Chiang, includes the lyric "Who decides which soul goes into which body? Who turns a body into a prison?" "You were innocent – the world is guilty," it says of the teenager's death. "There's no crime in living as a human – no need to apologize." "The best revenge, the best way to fight back, is through beauty," it concludes. "Never let anyone change you – someone will love you [regardless of pronouns]." Rainbow symbols denied The censorship of Tsai's song comes after Chinese officials removed a LGBTQ+ anthem titled "Rainbow" by Taiwanese pop star A-Mei from her setlist from a recent concert in Beijing, while security guards forced fans turning up for the gig to remove clothing and other paraphernalia bearing the rainbow symbol before going in, according to media reports. Sherry Zhang, who goes by the stage name A-Mei, wrote the song for all of her LGBTQ+ friends, and it is frequently heard at Pride events on the democratic island of Taiwan. Jolin Tsai's song commemorates Yeh Yung-chih, a former student at the Kaoshu Junior High School in Taiwan's Pingtung county. "Jolin Tsai's song Womxnly was banned in Changsha, which is very Chinese," Taiwanese cultural commentator T.C. Chang said via his X account. "This song won the Song of the Year at the Golden Melody Awards in 2019, which was not long before the legalization of same-sex marriage in Taiwan." "It has been 19 years since [Yeh] was bullied by his classmates because of his gender difference, and was found dead in the school toilets," he wrote. Suppressed Cheng Chi-wei, head of social work at Taiwan's Tongzhi (LGBTQ+) Hotline Association, said both A-Mei and Jolin Tsang support gender diversity, which is at odds with the growing suppression of the LGBTQ+ community by the Chinese Communist Party. "A lot of big Taiwanese stars are gender-conscious," Cheng told Radio Free Asia. "A-mei and Jolin Tsai's gender-friendly expressions are inconsistent with China's main theme tune, which is the suppression of sexual minorities and diverse voices." While homosexuality was decriminalized in China in 1997, and removed from official psychiatric diagnostic manuals in 2001, President Xi Jinping has ushered in a far more conservative attitude to sexuality than his predecessors. Activists have said the crackdown stems in part from the government's fear of civil organizations as a threat to party rule. In April, two LGBTQ+ students from Beijing's Tsinghua University lodged an administrative lawsuit against China's Ministry of Education after being harassed and threatened by the authorities for leaving rainbow flags out for people to take in a campus supermarket. "A popular song about gender, like Womxnly or Rainbow, will trigger social discussions and put the focus on gender equality and diversity in China," Cheng said. "I have huge admiration for these artists, but ... the powers that be have brought down their sword, and said they can't sing [these songs]." ‘For every free soul’ Tsai said in her acceptance speech for the Golden Melody Award for Womxnly: "[Yeh Yung-chih] reminded me that I could at any time be part of a minority, and that I should have more empathy for those around me." "This song wasn't written for a specific person, or group of people, but for every free soul – always remember to choose yourself and support yourself," she said. Online comments took issue with the ban. "This song hasn't offended anyone – it's quite obviously an anti-bullying song, which is very positive," said one. Others said the decision might have been "random," as Tsai was allowed to perform the song in Shenzhen. A Taiwan-based writer who uses the pen name Shangguan Luan and who grew up in Chin, said local governments vary in their attitudes to censorship, and that a comedy company that was fined in Beijing could run into no problems in Shanghai. Much depends on a culture of pro-government informants, who complain about content they find "offensive." "If the little pink conservatives report it, then official websites will usually take something down," Shangguan Luan said. "Taiwanese artists are usually very careful and conservative in China, and won't be impromptu or rash about the songs they perform." "The culture of informants is very strong in China." Translated with additional reporting by Luisetta Mudie. Edited by Malcolm Foster.
## [LGBTQ+-themed song is removed from Jolin Tsai's Changsha gig](https://www.rfa.org/english/news/china/china-lgbtq-song-removed-09062023145503.html)


> LGBTQ+-themed song is removed from Jolin Tsai's Changsha gig 2023.09.06 Authorities in the central Chinese city of Changsha removed an LGBTQ+-themed song from the setlist of Taiwanese pop star Jolin Tsai, according to her publicity team. Tsai's song "Womxnly" – which commemorates a Taiwanese teenager who was found dead in a school toilet after being bullied by classmates for his "feminine" appearance – is nearly always included in her shows, and has become an anthem for the island's lesbian, gay, bisexual, transexual and questioning community. Unconfirmed social media reports said officials in the southern city of Guangzhou had already denied the singer the use of a rainbow spotlight during the song. By the time Tsai and her entourage reached Changsha, the song had been cut from the setlist entirely. "2023 Sep 2nd Jolin Tsai Ugly Beauty Tour in Changsha. Womxnly is not performed during this show," a Jolin Tsai fan account on X, formerly Twitter, reported on Sept. 3. An entry on the singer's publicity website added: "The setlist included 42 songs. Womxnly was scrapped, most likely because of censorship…" The song, penned by Tsai and rapper Razor Chiang, includes the lyric "Who decides which soul goes into which body? Who turns a body into a prison?" "You were innocent – the world is guilty," it says of the teenager's death. "There's no crime in living as a human – no need to apologize." "The best revenge, the best way to fight back, is through beauty," it concludes. "Never let anyone change you – someone will love you [regardless of pronouns]." Rainbow symbols denied The censorship of Tsai's song comes after Chinese officials removed a LGBTQ+ anthem titled "Rainbow" by Taiwanese pop star A-Mei from her setlist from a recent concert in Beijing, while security guards forced fans turning up for the gig to remove clothing and other paraphernalia bearing the rainbow symbol before going in, according to media reports. Sherry Zhang, who goes by the stage name A-Mei, wrote the song for all of her LGBTQ+ friends, and it is frequently heard at Pride events on the democratic island of Taiwan. Jolin Tsai's song commemorates Yeh Yung-chih, a former student at the Kaoshu Junior High School in Taiwan's Pingtung county. "Jolin Tsai's song Womxnly was banned in Changsha, which is very Chinese," Taiwanese cultural commentator T.C. Chang said via his X account. "This song won the Song of the Year at the Golden Melody Awards in 2019, which was not long before the legalization of same-sex marriage in Taiwan." "It has been 19 years since [Yeh] was bullied by his classmates because of his gender difference, and was found dead in the school toilets," he wrote. Suppressed Cheng Chi-wei, head of social work at Taiwan's Tongzhi (LGBTQ+) Hotline Association, said both A-Mei and Jolin Tsang support gender diversity, which is at odds with the growing suppression of the LGBTQ+ community by the Chinese Communist Party. "A lot of big Taiwanese stars are gender-conscious," Cheng told Radio Free Asia. "A-mei and Jolin Tsai's gender-friendly expressions are inconsistent with China's main theme tune, which is the suppression of sexual minorities and diverse voices." While homosexuality was decriminalized in China in 1997, and removed from official psychiatric diagnostic manuals in 2001, President Xi Jinping has ushered in a far more conservative attitude to sexuality than his predecessors. Activists have said the crackdown stems in part from the government's fear of civil organizations as a threat to party rule. In April, two LGBTQ+ students from Beijing's Tsinghua University lodged an administrative lawsuit against China's Ministry of Education after being harassed and threatened by the authorities for leaving rainbow flags out for people to take in a campus supermarket. "A popular song about gender, like Womxnly or Rainbow, will trigger social discussions and put the focus on gender equality and diversity in China," Cheng said. "I have huge admiration for these artists, but ... the powers that be have brought down their sword, and said they can't sing [these songs]." ‘For every free soul’ Tsai said in her acceptance speech for the Golden Melody Award for Womxnly: "[Yeh Yung-chih] reminded me that I could at any time be part of a minority, and that I should have more empathy for those around me." "This song wasn't written for a specific person, or group of people, but for every free soul – always remember to choose yourself and support yourself," she said. Online comments took issue with the ban. "This song hasn't offended anyone – it's quite obviously an anti-bullying song, which is very positive," said one. Others said the decision might have been "random," as Tsai was allowed to perform the song in Shenzhen. A Taiwan-based writer who uses the pen name Shangguan Luan and who grew up in Chin, said local governments vary in their attitudes to censorship, and that a comedy company that was fined in Beijing could run into no problems in Shanghai. Much depends on a culture of pro-government informants, who complain about content they find "offensive." "If the little pink conservatives report it, then official websites will usually take something down," Shangguan Luan said. "Taiwanese artists are usually very careful and conservative in China, and won't be impromptu or rash about the songs they perform." "The culture of informants is very strong in China." Translated with additional reporting by Luisetta Mudie. Edited by Malcolm Foster.
## [Rainbow symbols, LGBTQ+ anthem banned from Taiwan singer A-Mei's Beijing gig](https://www.rfa.org/english/news/china/taiwan-singer-lgbtq-08092023122225.html)


> Rainbow symbols, LGBTQ+ anthem banned from Taiwan singer A-Mei's Beijing gig 2023.08.09 Chinese officials removed a LGBTQ+ anthem titled "Rainbow" by Taiwanese pop star A-Mei from her setlist from a recent concert in Beijing, while security guards forced fans turning up for the gig to remove clothing and other paraphernalia bearing the rainbow symbol before going in, according to media reports. Sherry Zhang, who goes by the stage name A-Mei, wrote the song for all of her LGBTQ+ friends, and it is frequently heard at Pride events on the democratic island of Taiwan. Her fans among the LGBTQ+ community often turn up and wave rainbow flags or wear rainbow clothing in a show of solidarity, confident that the song will make an appearance. But fans who went to A-Mei's concerts at Beijing's Cadillac center at the weekend took to social media to complain of being targeted for censorship by the authorities instead. Security guards made them change out of their rainbow clothing and wear plain black clothes provided by the venue, while even bags with rainbow ribbons were prevented from entering the venue, they said. “When I watched A-Mei, it was at Beijing Workers’ Sports Complex in 2015. Back then we could still pass around a gigantic rainbow flag,” a user on Xiaohongshu, China’s version of Instagram, wrote in comments cited by Time. “Now the security guard is really carefully checking all the rainbow elements. What exactly are you afraid of?” The rainbow flag, or the Pride flag, is used around the world as a symbol of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer communities. Champion of diversity The Asia One news site reported last month that security guards at an A-Mei gig in Singapore had prevented fans from waving rainbow flags during the singer's performance of the song, which was allowed to form part of the show. An LGBTQ+ community member who gave only the nickname Bingbing for fear of reprisals said A-Mei is seen as something of a gay icon for her championing of sexual diversity. "A lot of people were asked to change out of rainbow clothing or remove rainbow logos at Sherry Zhang's Beijing concert," Bingbing said. "The Chinese government publicly asked people to cover up the rainbow symbol, which is the symbol of equal rights." "I personally think that sends a very strong signal." In April, two LGBTQ+ students from Beijing's Tsinghua University lodged an administrative lawsuit against China's Ministry of Education after being harassed and threatened by the authorities for leaving rainbow flags out for people to take in a campus supermarket. While homosexuality was decriminalized in China in 1997, and removed from official psychiatric diagnostic manuals in 2001, ruling Chinese Communist Party leader Xi Jinping has ushered in a far more conservative attitude to sexuality than his predecessors. Activists have said the crackdown stems in part from the government's fear of civil organizations as a threat to party rule. "The black hand of the Chinese government is reaching into all aspects of society," Bingbing said. "The contempt for and policing of gay symbols is strong proof of that." Contrast with Taiwan In July 2021, the Chinese social media platform WeChat deleted dozens of accounts belonging to LGBTQ+ groups at universities, saying they had broken laws and regulations governing online content. The move came after the cancellation of Shanghai's decade-old Pride event in 2020. The organizers, ShanghaiPRIDE, which had also been involved in ongoing civil society activities in support of the LGBTQ community in China, including running seminars for the parents of LGBTQ people. In democratic Taiwan, which legalized same-sex marriages in 2019, the picture is very different, "Taiwan is a society that supports diversity," Bingbing said. "Same-sex marriage was legalized a few years ago, making Taiwan the first country in Asia to legalize it." "Last year, it also passed a law on cross-border same-sex marriage. All these things are a manifestation of social progress." A Chinese gay man living in Europe who gave only the name Antony said the LGBTQ+ community is seen as politically "sensitive" by Beijing. "Taiwan is far ahead of China – they have legalized gay marriage – while China is suppressing sexual minorities in various ways," he said. "Last month, Berlin had its Pride parade, and more than 500,000 people took to the streets to support the rights of sexual minorities," Antony said. "Even Germany's parliamentary speaker and interior minister took part." 'Banning the rainbow' As a gay man, I looked at the rainbow flags flying everywhere and thought back to when I was in China and I was afraid to even admit my sexuality," he said, citing the closure of the Beijing LGBT Center in May. "It is no surprise that the Chinese Communist Party is banning the rainbow," Antony said. "Some Chinese sexual minority rights organizations have also been forced to close down." "In the eyes of the Chinese government, we are seen as a sensitive and unstable group," he said. "Organized groups ... have held various activities and campaigned for the affirmation of our rights, alongside a civic struggle for freedom of speech and association." "That's why they're being suppressed by the Chinese Communist Party." More and more highly educated urban Chinese have begun coming out in recent years, and while some find acceptance among their peers, social attitudes still strongly favor heterosexual marriage and children. How many Chinese identify as LGBTQ+ is unknown. The country’s health and family planning ministry has estimated that there are between five and 10 million gay men in China, but activists say the actual number is far higher. There have been a growing number of anti-discrimination lawsuits filed by the community in China since around 2010, as well as some rare though unsuccessful bids to register same-sex marriages. Translated by Luisetta Mudie.
## [Thailand becomes first Southeast Asian country to approve same-sex marriage bill](https://www.rfa.org/english/news/pacific/same-sex-marriage-bill-12222023100333.html)


> Thailand becomes first Southeast Asian country to approve same-sex marriage bill 2023.12.22 Bangkok In a historic first for Southeast Asia, Thai lawmakers on Thursday passed a bill to begin the process of legalizing same-sex marriages, capping off a years-long campaign by advocates for LGBTQ rights. The Marriage Equality Bill, which saw multiple versions proposed by the ruling and opposition parties as well as through a public petition, received resounding support in the House of Representatives. As many as 369 MPs voted in favor of it versus 10 who voted against the proposed legislation. “The benefits of this [bill] affirm the government’s commitment to human rights,” Deputy Prime Minister Somsak Thepsuthin said while presenting the government’s version of the bill to Parliament. “We are working to ensure everyone has equal access to family life, free from unfair discrimination.” “This law should not be seen as belonging to any particular party. It should be a collective effort for the benefit of all Thai society,” he said. Different versions of the bill proposed by the ruling and opposition parties had only minor differences and had agreement on key issues. The core feature common to all versions of the bill is the alteration of the marriage definition from a union between “male and female” to “two individuals (of any gender).” This change grants “spouses” access to a host of legal rights that were previously exclusive to heterosexual couples. If approved by the king, the Thai government will publish the bill in the Royal Gazette before it becomes law – a process that would make Thailand the first country in Southeast Asia and only the third in Asia to recognize same-sex marriage. There is no timeline for completing the process. Prime Minister Srettha Thavisin previously announced that the Cabinet had approved a draft amendment to the code regulating civil unions in Thailand. “This law will enable same-sex couples to engage and marry under the Civil and Commercial Code, granting them rights and responsibilities equal to heterosexual married couples,” he told reporters. Tunyawaj Kamolwongwat, a member of the LGBTQ community and an MP from the main opposition Move Forward Party, addressed Parliament to share a personal perspective. “I was born a transgender. Whether I laugh or cry, my transgender identity always remains with me,” Tunyawaj said. “Transgender individuals have a place in society, have rights and dignity, and deserve to live life as they wish, including within a family setting.” Public support The bill enjoys overwhelming support in Thailand, with a survey during formal public consultation showing nearly 97% in favor. Thailand boasts one of the most vibrant LGBTQ communities in Asia, a region where only Taiwan and Nepal previously recognized the rights of same-sex couples to marry. Annually, thousands of Thais participate in Pride Month celebrations and tourism authorities actively promote the country’s welcoming environment for LGBTQ travelers. A recent survey by the Pew Research Center, an American think-tank, revealed that 60% of Thai adults support the legalization of same-sex marriage. This places Thailand behind only Japan (68%) and Vietnam (65%) in terms of support for such a measure in Asia. However, discrimination against gay and lesbian individuals persists in Thailand, particularly in employment and health care, advocates say. Same-sex couples were previously unable to adopt children, make emergency health care decisions for their partners, or access spousal benefits, including tax deductions and government pensions. If enacted, the law is expected to address many of these issues, said Matcha Phorn-in, a rights activist and executive director of the Sangsan Anakot Yawachon Development Project, an advocacy group led by LGBTQ feminists. “Looking at the current societal atmosphere, there’s hardly any concern. The principles of all drafts show no hidden discrimination,” she said. “However, once the law passes, our next step is genuine participation. The law must not lead to people of diverse sexual orientations becoming second-class citizens through its enforcement.” BenarNews is an RFA-affiliated online news organization.
## [中国最钱线：钱线看财报："粉红经济"的生意经与LGBTQ的生死场](https://www.rfa.org/mandarin/zhuanlan/zhongguozuiqianxian/fin-08272021172423.html)


> 专栏 | 中国最钱线：钱线看财报："粉红经济"的生意经与LGBTQ的生死场 欢迎收听自由亚洲电台，这里是“中国最钱线”，我是子朝。这期节目，我们从一家刚刚发布的半年报的纳斯达克中概股公司说起。 被冷落的“粉红经济第一股” 2021年8月24日，一家美国纳斯达克上市的中国公司发布了它的半年报。这家公司体量不大，相对于这个夏天每天在生死之间挣扎的诸多中概股大哥们，它已经没有多少新闻价值了。但这家公司去年7月上市之时，曾经引发了相当热烈的关注。它就是“蓝城兄弟”，被昵称为“小蓝”，一家以LGBTQ，即同性恋、双性恋、跨性别等性少数群体的线上交友平台为主营业务的公司。它也是全球第一家公开上市的“粉红经济”公司——即服务于LGBTQ群体的企业。这家公司不在美国、英国，也不在荷兰、台湾。他开在中国北京，一个LGBTQ群体在官方语境里约等于不存在的地方。 蓝城兄弟，核心业务是在中国男同性恋群体中占有垄断地位的交友平台“blued”。这家公司前身是名为“淡蓝网”的同性交友论坛，创立于2000年。在去年上市时，作为全球“粉红经济第一股”得到广泛关注，它的创始人曾说“听到全世界的同性恋都在买你的股票，我哭了”，令人动容。 可一年过后，蓝城兄弟的股价仅为3.7美元左右，这个价格相当于发行价的约五分之一，比起上市之初35美元的高点更是缩水到了只剩十分之一。其实作为一家上市不久的互联网企业，“小蓝”的业绩并不算差。财报显示，2021年二季度，蓝城兄弟总营收同比增长18%，毛利率较去年同期上升3个百分点，总付费用户数同比增近六成。“小蓝”还收购了自己在中国大陆最大的竞争对手，俗称“小红”的另一款男同交友软件“翻咔”，又将女同交友软件LESDO收入旗下，在中国LGBTQQ群体的社交市场上已经占据绝对的垄断地位，还高调进军泰国等地拓展业务。 它的活跃用户每天平均登录21次，在线超过50分钟，留存率高于六成。庞大而稳定的用户群体是它宽宽的护城河。加上拥有“中国7000万，全球3.9亿”的巨大潜在市场，这个市场传说中的强大消费能力，似乎希望无限。网上我找到的仅有的一篇分析“小蓝”半年报的投研文章，不断强调它是一家“已经处于估值底部”的公司。但在定价机制非常成熟的美股市场，为什么大家对这一家看起来并不太差的公司似乎就是不买账，对它的凉薄甚至超过了一般的中概股呢？ 单一收入结构：做的是“寂寞生意” 从这家公司的业务结构上看，我们也许能看出一些端倪。蓝城兄弟的收入接近八成来自于直播，剩下为会员服务、男性健康服务、广告的收入。在上市之初，直播业务的收入占比甚至高达九成。相比blued的同类友商，美国市场上占比第一的Grindr三分之二的收入来自会员费用，这一高度集中的收入结构就更显特别。这固然是因为中国消费者缺少付费的习惯，但也跟中国LGBTQ群体的现状有着相当大的关系。 2020年，中国直播产业总规模高达1930亿元人民币，从业人员突破千万。这个产业，本质上就是在消费现代人的寂寞。Blued作为同性恋的专属空间，不管这个人在日常生活中把自己藏得多么深，或者他居住的小城市和农村根本就找不到多少同道中人，但他总可以每天准时打卡，问候一下那些高颜值的小哥哥，送一份礼物，听他们说声谢谢。对于很多藏身于茫茫人海的基友，可谓极佳的心灵慰藉。blued的直播业务强大而稳健，成为推动公司上市的绝对顶梁柱。 这其实也呼应了我们之前提到的，“小蓝”的产品用户粘性和活跃度都非常高。即使在普遍孤独寂寞的当代中国都市人中间，同性恋群体都是最最寂寞的一群。普遍性的“深柜”反而增强了他们对于“专属社交平台”的刚性需求，同时也极大提升了他们的用户粘性。 交友软件首要功能自然是交友，有单纯的也有不那么单纯的。但用过blued这款软件的人，都感觉它相比于国外同类软件的功能丰富——他不仅可以用来找到附近的同类，还同时是同志版的微博、微信、脸书和抖音，除了要到附近某个帅哥的微信，你还可以找到一个“都是自己人”的网络乌托邦。交友软件普遍的一个重大问题，就是平台认识的朋友，下一步就跑到微信之类通用的社交工具上去了，如果不能在用户端收到费用，有什么办法留住流量直至将其变现？中国性少数群体的现状，却很好地帮助blued解决了这个问题。 这甚至可以一定程度上解释了，为什么全球第一家“粉红经济”的上市公司出在中国。中国作为一个已经相当程度上工业化、城市化的国家，越来越多的性少数群体有了较强的自我认同。全球涌动的平权浪潮，让更多人渴望能过自己想要的生活。中国在2001年将同性恋从精神疾病列表中去除，算是完成了“非罪化”。到了颜值消费盛行的今天，让好看的男孩子表演暧昧已经成了一种市场卖点。 但数千万分布在每个地区、每个行业、每个民族，和其他人一样普通的LGBTQ们本身，却依然处于被彻底消音的状态。甚至中国在影视娱乐产品审查中，把“同性恋”与乱伦、强奸等行为列入一并禁止的范围。主流媒体报道中的同志群体，依然充满各类歧视和偏见。这种环境下，一个柜子里的乌托邦，当然能有自己分不走的流量。加上中国庞大的人口基数，自然有客观的市场，而且能产生可供应稳定现金流的业务。这倒是许多中概股共有的特点——中国的庞大市场和特殊国情，让他们更有竞争力。 当然，这也同时意味着很多投行报告中都指出的“用户成长空间有限”或者“收入来源过于单一”的问题。但中国有数千万性少数群体，“小蓝”作为这个人群交友软件领域绝对的流量垄断者，市场怎么就不能对它的成长性多给一些认可呢？ 薛定谔的红线——如影随形的“政策风险” 主要的原因，就是那个如影随形的“政策风险”。说白了，LGBTQ群体的存在，在中国依然处于灰色地带。 是的，作为性少数群体，中国至少到目前为止还没有因为你的性取向就拘捕你，没有对你进行肉体上的迫害。国家允许你存在，但同时假装你不存在。先不说组建家庭、养育后代这类似乎很“第一世界”的事情，即使是最基本的平等就业、平等就医，在特色法制里统统没有位置。结果就是国家允许你做自己，但做自己的一切后果都要你自己承担。你受到歧视和的霸凌，法律不为你主持公道也就罢了，国家还把你们组织起来为自己求个公道的机会也堵住了。在发达国家同侪帮助下建立的各类LGBTQ公益组织，跟所有一切此类民间自组织一样长期被老大哥盯着，前不久更是被一铺清袋。中国现在其实只有LGBTQ群体，并无LGBTQ社区。 在这种“法无明文不禁止”但也不知道哪天就会被禁止的模糊地带做生意，就难免不知道哪天被动碰了红线或是无辜躺枪。中国政府既然管天管地管空气，当然也要管人民的那什么器。 “小蓝”赖以生存的直播业务更是离不开擦边球来活跃人气，很多时候就在违法的边缘试探了，这也是直播行业的共同痛点。哪怕这里的注册用户都满了18岁，但中国在这方面一向把所有人都看成小学生，加上身为性少数群体的原罪。自“小蓝”上市以来，各家机构始终对其所谓“低俗内容”可能造成的风险表示担忧。毕竟是否“低俗”，很多时候真的就是你运气好不好。 “小蓝”自己也清楚只依靠直播并非长久之计，它也有更大的野心把彩虹经济做大。从组织“同志”们去海外旅行，去可以登记结婚的国家登记办婚礼，帮助他们去境外通过代孕等手段得到自己的宝宝。乃至成立专门的健康业务部，为“同志”们提供进口HIV阻断药、快检试剂等产品。虽然这些的潜在市场只是少数一二线都市的高收入群体。 其实更麻烦的是，这些服务，几乎都是把在中国不能做的事情拿到外国去做。其中有些业务比如代孕，本来就有相当大的争议。在舆论环境险恶的当下中国，很多时候那是真的人在家中坐，锅从天上来。今年1月，影星郑爽赴美代孕产子纠纷引出的大瓜，掀开了中共文艺大清洗的序幕，这个我们暂且不提。但代孕这项至少在美国算是完全合法的业务，却在中国大陆的网络空间里被打成十恶不赦的罪行。“小蓝”因为涉及海外代孕业务，惨遭躺枪，股价一次性缩水3亿多美元。 乃至作为一个做交友软件的公司，会不会造成用户个人信息安全方面的隐患？至少我们看到了“小蓝”的竞争对手Grindr,已经被美国政府强制要求其中国股东卖出。说明这种担忧，并非空穴来风。 如上这些，表明“彩虹经济”之路，并不像很多乐观的人想得那样美好，市场的冷淡便也可以理解了。 清歌于漏舟之中，痛饮于焚屋之下 如果说我们前面讲的各种政策风险，只是影响蓝城兄弟这一家公司的股价。但也许某天风险就变成了危险。2021年7月7日这天，中国各大网络平台无预警删除所有高校LGBTQ社团的账号。这一突然袭击，不管是处于对一切社会自组织的打压，还是迫于人口压力打击一切不利于生娃的思想和活动，都标志着中共对LGBTQ群体压制的显性化。在此之后，不论是高校对同性恋学生进行摸底调查“拉清单”，还是赛博暴民们对LGBTQ群体日益极端的仇恨言论，都在暗示着：“小蓝”和许多教育培训公司一样，自己赖以生存的市场的存在可能都逐渐成为了问题。 与此同时， “小蓝”则依然在塑造和推广体面、自信、有爱的中上层同志形象，仿佛它的用户群体的生活，和他们在旧金山、柏林、台北的同类真的没什么区别。甚至好像给自己壮胆般地，说什么“随着中国国力的增强，必然会越来越重视少数群体的权益云云”。作为一家为股东利益服务的上市公司，这样做无可厚非。在大环境越来越险恶地当下，大家也只能尽可能避开每一个防不胜防的雷区。 只是这种展示本身就很难避免成为中国政府宣传其“开明”“进步”形象的一项景观。中共当局对性少数群体的包容程度，也取决于他们还有多大必要表演这种“开明”和“进步”。举个例子，就在现仅在充斥着检举、滥捕、暴力镇压的香港，刽子手林郑月娥公开支持举办世界“同志运动会”，以便可以向全世界假装一切都没有改变。哪怕这座城市的LGBTQ社区领袖大部分已经在监狱里！ 未来的确越来越坏。不过在那之前，我们的确也可以借着全球化消费主义的最后一口美酒，清歌于漏舟之中，痛饮于焚屋之下！其实，整个中国在美上市公司群体，乃至于整个中国资本市场里的“体制外”部门，谁又不是如此？ 这期节目就到这里，我是子朝，我们下期再见。 （本文中对上市公司的观点仅代表个人意见，不代表自由亚洲电台的立场，且不包含任何投资建议）
## [遭中国当局打压？“北京同志中心”停运引关注](https://www.rfa.org/mandarin/Xinwen/4-05162023111848.html/ampRFA)


> 遭中国当局打压？“北京同志中心”停运引关注 - 2023-05-16 - - - 成立15年的中国最大LGBTQ组织“北京同志中心”周一（15日）晚间忽然在其社媒账号发出声明，宣布“因不可抗力”，该中心将终止运营。声明感谢一直以来对他们的关注与支持，同时附上一张长图，当中写到“希望有一天，我们会带着彼此的骄傲，再次相见。” 声明引发热议，并引起舆论关注。美国《华盛顿邮报》称，这是对中国多元化的一大打击，并指出，几乎同一时间，台湾立法会刚通过一项修正案，允许同性伴侣领养孩子，这是对同性恋权利的最新承认。而这两件事都是在5月17日就是国际不再恐同日（全称为“国际不再恐惧同性恋、跨性别与双性恋日”）临近之际。 报道说，“北京同志中心”的关闭公告在微信上被广泛分享，浏览量迅速突破十万次，这是其微信号记录的最大浏览量。一位微博用户在微博上评论说：“至少这是一个奢侈的葬礼。”还有不少中国网民在其贴文下留言，对该组织自2008年以来为中国LGBTQ社群做出的贡献表示感谢，也呼吁希望能有“继任者”出现，接力服务性少数社群。 报道也指出，保守派人士对此举表示欢迎，并批评该组织传播“西方”思想，可能破坏中国共产党的控制。。 另据《德国之声》报道，长期在中国推动LGBTQ社群运动的安迪（化名）在受访问时表示，北同中心文中提到“不可抗力”，这肯定是中国政府的命令让他们无法继续运作。他对此并不感到意外，因为过去几年, 中国政府曾打压多所大学的LGBTQ社团或民间团体，现在他们在中国已“没有做事的空间”。 长期关注亚洲各国LGBTQ运动发展的“国际立即行动”（Outright International）亚洲区方案主任吕欣洁也告诉《德国之声》，北同中心提供该社群一个安全空间，也是中国LGBTQ运动者一个“很稳定”的角色。北同中心停止运营，会让中国的活动者感到更绝望。 责编：凯迪
## [遭中國當局打壓？“北京同志中心”停運引關注](https://www.rfa.org/mandarin/Xinwen/4-05162023111848.html?encoding=traditional)


> 遭中國當局打壓？“北京同志中心”停運引關注 2023.05.16 11:21 ET 成立15年的中國最大LGBTQ組織“北京同志中心”週一（15日）晚間忽然在其社媒賬號發出聲明，宣佈“因不可抗力”，該中心將終止運營。聲明感謝一直以來對他們的關注與支持，同時附上一張長圖，當中寫到“希望有一天，我們會帶着彼此的驕傲，再次相見。” 聲明引發熱議，並引起輿論關注。美國《華盛頓郵報》稱，這是對中國多元化的一大打擊，並指出，幾乎同一時間，臺灣立法會剛通過一項修正案，允許同性伴侶領養孩子，這是對同性戀權利的最新承認。而這兩件事都是在5月17日就是國際不再恐同日（全稱爲“國際不再恐懼同性戀、跨性別與雙性戀日”）臨近之際。 報道說，“北京同志中心”的關閉公告在微信上被廣泛分享，瀏覽量迅速突破十萬次，這是其微信號記錄的最大瀏覽量。一位微博用戶在微博上評論說：“至少這是一個奢侈的葬禮。”還有不少中國網民在其貼文下留言，對該組織自2008年以來爲中國LGBTQ社羣做出的貢獻表示感謝，也呼籲希望能有“繼任者”出現，接力服務性少數社羣。 報道也指出，保守派人士對此舉表示歡迎，並批評該組織傳播“西方”思想，可能破壞中國共產黨的控制。。 另據《德國之聲》報道，長期在中國推動LGBTQ社羣運動的安迪（化名）在受訪問時表示，北同中心文中提到“不可抗力”，這肯定是中國政府的命令讓他們無法繼續運作。他對此並不感到意外，因爲過去幾年, 中國政府曾打壓多所大學的LGBTQ社團或民間團體，現在他們在中國已“沒有做事的空間”。 長期關注亞洲各國LGBTQ運動發展的“國際立即行動”（Outright International）亞洲區方案主任呂欣潔也告訴《德國之聲》，北同中心提供該社羣一個安全空間，也是中國LGBTQ運動者一個“很穩定”的角色。北同中心停止運營，會讓中國的活動者感到更絕望。 責編：凱迪