



# [Rural Health Research Gateway - publications and projects funded through the Federal Office of Rural Health Policy (FORHP)](ruralhealthresearch.org): ~5 pages censored since 1/20/25

## [Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer (LGBTQ+): Completed Rural Health Research](https://www.ruralhealthresearch.org/topics/lgbtq/completed-projects?sort=name)


> Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer (LGBTQ+) Completed Projects Alphabetical list. You can also view by project completion date. - Rural/Urban Differences in Health and Health Care Access for LGBT Adults The purpose of this project was to identify rural/urban differences in health and health care access for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) adults. We also identified within-rural differences among LGBT adults by race, ethnicity, age, disability status, and socio-economic status. Finally, we identified examples of best practices supporting LGBT health and wellness in rural areas. Research center: University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center Topics: Aging, Cancer, Disabilities, Health disparities and health equity, Healthcare access, Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer (LGBTQ+), Mental and behavioral health, Minority health, Poverty, Rural statistics and demographics, Social determinants of health
## [Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer (LGBTQ+): Completed Rural Health Research](https://www.ruralhealthresearch.org/topics/lgbtq/completed-projects)


> Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer (LGBTQ+) Completed Projects Listed by project completion date. You can also view these projects alphabetically. 2023 - Rural/Urban Differences in Health and Health Care Access for LGBT Adults The purpose of this project was to identify rural/urban differences in health and health care access for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) adults. We also identified within-rural differences among LGBT adults by race, ethnicity, age, disability status, and socio-economic status. Finally, we identified examples of best practices supporting LGBT health and wellness in rural areas. Research center: University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center Topics: Aging, Cancer, Disabilities, Health disparities and health equity, Healthcare access, Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer (LGBTQ+), Mental and behavioral health, Minority health, Poverty, Rural statistics and demographics, Social determinants of health
## [Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer (LGBTQ+): Rural Health Research Products & Journal Articles](https://www.ruralhealthresearch.org/topics/lgbtq/publications)


> Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer (LGBTQ+) Research Products & Journal Articles Browse the full list of research publications on this topic completed by the Rural Health Research Centers. Products – Freely accessible products include policy briefs, fact sheets, full reports, chartbooks, and interactive data websites. Journal Articles – Articles in peer-reviewed journals may require a subscription or affiliation with a subscribing library. For these publications, Gateway lists the article citation, a brief summary, a link to additional information and access to the full-text of the article, if available. 2023 - Access to Health Care for Transgender and Gender-Diverse Adults in Urban and Rural Areas in the United States Journal Article University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center Date: 08/2023 This study examines access to care based on gender identity in urban and rural areas, focusing on transgender and gender diverse (TGD) populations. Data came from the 2019 to 2020 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. Researchers found greater barriers to care for TGD adults, with the most frequent barriers found among rural TGD adults. - Indicators of Familial Social Support by Rurality and Gender Identity Policy Brief University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center Date: 03/2023 Social and emotional support from family significantly contributes to positive health outcomes. Understanding how familial social support differs for those with overlapping marginalized identities is critical to advance population health and health equity. This brief examines differences in familial social support by rurality and gender identity. - Rural School- and Community-Based Programs Supporting LGBTQ+ Youth University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center Date: 02/2023 The purpose of this case series is to highlight youth-focused and school- and community-based organizations that affirm and support LGBTQ+ individuals in their rural communities. These may serve as examples to others considering this work. 2022 - Key Informant Perspectives on Supporting Health and Well-Being for LGBTQ+ Rural Residents Policy Brief University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center Date: 09/2022 This policy brief presents findings from interviews with national lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, and questioning (LGBTQ+) support and advocacy organizations regarding challenges to physical and mental health and well-being for rural LGBTQ+ individuals, as well as recommendations to meet the needs of LGBTQ+ individuals in rural areas. - Self-Rated Health Among Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual Adults: Rural/Urban Differences Policy Brief University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center Date: 07/2022 Research has documented worse health outcomes and constrained access to care for lesbian, gay, and bisexual adults. Rural residents also experience persistent disparities in health and access to care. This policy brief examines differences in self-rated health by sexual orientation and rural/urban location. - Anxiety, Depression, and Access to Mental Health Care by Sexual Orientation and Rurality Policy Brief University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center Date: 06/2022 This policy brief addresses the research gap among rural sexual minorities by illuminating differences in mental health for two of the most common mental health disorders (depression and anxiety), as well as differences in access to health care. - Improving Access to LGBTQIA+-Friendly Care in Rural Areas University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center Date: 06/2022 The purpose of this case series is to highlight organizations doing exemplary work to improve access to and experiences of health care among lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer/questioning, and asexual/agender (LGBTQIA+) individuals in rural communities across the U.S. - Prevalence of Chronic Conditions by Sexual Orientation and Rural-Urban Location Policy Brief University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center Date: 06/2022 This policy brief examines rates of individual chronic conditions, as well as differences in the number of chronic conditions by sexual orientation and rural-urban location. - Rural Community Organizations Building Inclusive Environments for LGBTQ+ Residents University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center Date: 06/2022 The purpose of this case series is to highlight rural organizations doing exemplary work to build community among lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer/ questioning residents, and create a more inclusive environment in their communities. - Small-Town Pride Celebrations Supporting Social Connectedness & Well-Being for LGBTQ+ Rural Residents University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center Date: 06/2022 The purpose of this case series is to highlight organizations in two states doing exemplary work to celebrate and affirm lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer/questioning (LGBTQ+) individuals in their rural communities through Pride events. These may serve as examples to others considering this work. - Social and Emotional Support During the COVID-19 Pandemic by Sexual Orientation and Rurality Policy Brief University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center Date: 06/2022 This brief identifies differences in social and emotional support and changes to that support during the COVID-19 pandemic by rurality and sexual orientation. - Evaluating the Rural HIV/AIDS Planning Program Policy Brief University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center Date: 01/2022 The purpose of this policy brief is to understand the overall experiences of the first grantee cohort (2020-21) of the Rural HIV/AIDS Planning Program. We pay particular attention to any barriers to or facilitators of successful grant implementation, and the sustainability of programs and acquisition of future funding.
## [Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer (LGBTQ+): Rural Health Research Topic](https://www.ruralhealthresearch.org/topics/lgbtq)


> Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer (LGBTQ+) Research Findings View publications, including policy briefs, working papers, and journal articles, on Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer (LGBTQ+): Recaps View one-page summary Recaps of key findings from the Rural Health Research Centers on Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer (LGBTQ+): LGBTQ+ Health: Rural vs Urban Inequities Date: 03/2024 From 2019-2020, rural lesbian, gay, and bisexual adults were more likely to report poor/fair self-rated health than rural heterosexual adults. This Recap examines self-rated health, chronic conditions, mental health, and social and emotional support systems for LGBTQ+ populations. - Webinars Access information on upcoming or archived webinars on Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer (LGBTQ+). Projects on this Topic Learn more about the research questions guiding each study, the lead researcher for each, and when the Research Center anticipates releasing completed product(s) under each project. In the past, 1 research project has been completed on Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer (LGBTQ+). -
## [Recap Details: LGBTQ+ Health: Rural vs Urban Inequities](https://www.ruralhealthresearch.org/recaps/23)


> LGBTQ+ Health: Rural vs Urban Inequities March 2024 by Jessica Rosencrans, BBA Funded by the Federal Office of Rural Health Policy (FORHP) within the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), the Rural Health Research Gateway disseminates work of the FORHP-funded Rural Health Research Centers (RHRCs). This resource provides a summary of recent research, conducted by the University of Minnesota RHRC, on the health of rural LGBTQ+ individuals. Self-Rated Health and Chronic Conditions From 2019-2020, rural lesbian, gay, and bisexual (LGB) adults were more likely to report poor/fair self-rated health than rural heterosexual adults.1 When adjusting for age, sex, race, ethnicity, educational attainment, and income, rural LGB adults had lower likelihood of excellent/very good/good self-rated health than rural heterosexual adults.1 Prevalence of chronic conditions, including arthritis, asthma, cancer, coronary heart disease, high cholesterol, depression, anxiety, diabetes, heart attack, hypertension, stroke, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder, were examined in rural LGB residents from 2019-2020.2 By both rurality and sexual orientation, rural LGB adults were found to be the most likely to report having three or more chronic conditions (44%) and the least likely to report having zero chronic conditions (19%).2 Alternatively, urban heterosexual adults were the most likely to have zero chronic conditions (39%) and the least likely to have three or more chronic conditions (23%).2 See Figure 1. Figure 1. Number of Chronic Conditions by Sexual Orientation and Rurality, 2019-20202 Among LGB adults, significant differences were found for arthritis (29.4% rural vs 14.7% urban), depression (54.0% rural vs 39.3% urban), diabetes (12.3% rural vs 4.8% urban), and hypertension (31.8% rural vs 20.8% urban).2 In both rural and urban settings, LGB adults, compared to heterosexual adults, had higher rates of asthma, depression, and anxiety disorder.2 However, heterosexual adults had higher rates of coronary heart disease and high cholesterol.2 Anxiety, Depression, and Access to Mental Health Care When analyzing rural and urban LGB and heterosexual adults from 2019-2020, the highest levels of depression and anxiety disorder were found among rural LGB adults, with 38.6% reporting a dual diagnosis. Urban heterosexual adults had the highest rates of neither depression nor anxiety disorder diagnosis (81.0%).3 Additionally, among both rural and urban adults who felt depressed or took medication for depression, the severity of depression was higher for LGB adults.3 Rural LGB adults had the highest levels of depressed feelings, with 30.3% of those who had felt depressed saying the severity of depression was “a lot.”3 Prevalence of delaying mental health care was also affected by rurality and sexual orientation. Between rural adults with both a depression and anxiety disorder diagnosis, LGB adults were more likely than heterosexual adults to say they had delayed care because of cost (25.5% vs 13.9%).3 This delay of care was also higher for rural LGB adults with no depression or anxiety diagnosis, as compared to rural heterosexual adults with no diagnosis (9.9% vs 1.1%).3 See Figure 2. Figure 2. Rural Adults Delaying Mental Health Care by Sexual Orientation, 2019-20203 These inequities translated across urban respondents as well. Urban LGB adults were found to be less likely than urban heterosexual adults to have a usual source of care, regardless of depression or anxiety diagnoses.3 Urban LGB adults across all mental health diagnosis categories were also more likely to have delayed mental health care because of cost in the past 12 months, compared to urban heterosexual adults.3 Social Support for Transgender Individuals From 2016-2018, compared with rural cisgender adults, rural transgender adults were least likely to say they “very strongly” (7.0%) or “strongly” (9.3%) agree they get the social support they need from family members (vs. 32.3% and 29.1% of rural cisgender adults).4 Transgender adults, regardless of location, were less likely to agree that they received the social support they need compared to their cisgender counterparts (42.6% vs 76.6%).4 Rural transgender adults were also more likely to disagree that they get the familial support they need, compared to rural cisgender adults (40.8% vs 17.5%).4 This finding was similar in urban communities, with 47.3% of urban transgender adults reporting they do not get familial social support needed, compared to 14.9% of urban cisgender adults.4 Figure 3 depicts the percentage of adults who indicated any level of agreement (mildly, agree, and very strongly) that they receive familial social support. Figure 3. Receipt of Familial Social Support by Gender Identity and Rurality, 2016-20184 Social and Emotional Support During COVID-19 Data from 2020 showed that, among rural and urban LGB and heterosexual adults, rural LGB adults were the least likely to say that they always receive the social and emotional support that they need, while rural heterosexual adults were the most likely to say that they always receive that support (32.7% vs 55.7%).5 See Figure 4. When measured 12 months into the COVID-19 pandemic, rural LGB adults were the most likely to report receiving less social and emotional support compared to the year before the pandemic (23.5%).5 Urban LGB adults were the most likely to say they received more support than they had a year ago (22.9%).5 Figure 4. Receipt of Social and Emotional Support by Sexual Orientation and Rurality, 20205 Support Systems A 2022 case study examined rural Pride celebrations and collected key informant perspectives to help identify positive community support systems and challenges faced by rural LGBTQ+ residents.6 Overarching themes showcased how Pride celebrations boosted rural LGBTQ+ individuals’, and the community's, well-being.6 These events also generally contribute positively toward participants’ mental health, especially for LGBTQ+ youth.6 These individuals commented on how they were able to interact with others like them in a positive environment, which was not always provided in other settings.6 Other attendees commented on overwhelming feelings of happiness and safety that accompanied Pride celebrations.6 Rural locations that hosted Pride celebrations also encountered challenges and difficulties in preparing for the event.6 Members of the community who opposed the celebration were often vocal about their opinions and would sometimes take action to try to hinder the progress of the event planning.6 These tactics would also affect members of the LBGTQ+ community in these areas, making them feel unwelcome.6 However, despite setbacks, some hosts feel that support for Pride celebrations is growing in their communities and feel optimistic for the future.6 Conclusion When representatives from 14 LGBTQ+ support and advocacy organizations from around the U.S. were asked about challenges experienced by rural LGBTQ+ populations, the top two themes that emerged were lack of resources and lack of cultural competency.7 Lack of resources was related to limited financial and tangible resources to support LGBTQ+ individuals available in rural communities as compared to those available in urban areas.7 The theme of lacking cultural competency included concerns with health care providers who are not LGBTQ+ affirming, especially when caring for transgender individuals.7 Resources University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center (2022). Self-Rated Health Among Gay, Lesbian, and Bisexual Adults: Rural/Urban Differences. - University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center (2022). Prevalence of Chronic Conditions by Sexual Orientation and Rural-Urban Location. - University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center (2022). Anxiety, Depression, and Access to Mental Health Care by Sexual Orientation and Rurality. - University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center (2023). Indicators of Familial Social Support by Rurality and Gender Identity. - University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center (2022). Social and Emotional Support During the COVID-19 Pandemic by Sexual Orientation and Rurality. - University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center (2022). Small-Town Pride Celebrations Supporting Social Connectedness & Well-Being for LGBTQ+ Rural Residents. - University of Minnesota Rural Health Research Center (2022). Key Informant Perspectives on Supporting Health and Well-Being for LGBTQ+ Rural Residents. -