



# [Small Business Administration](sba.gov): ~12 pages censored since 1/20/25

## [prod.sba.gov](prod.sba.gov): ~12 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://prod.sba.gov/es/guia-de-negocios/haga-crecer-su-empresa/empresas-propiedad-de-lgbtq


Empresas propiedad de LGBTQ [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://prod.sba.gov/es/guia-de-negocios/haga-crecer-su-empresa/empresas-propiedad-de-lgbtq)

> Contenido Inclusión y extensión de la comunidad LGBTQ+ Los propietarios de empresas pueden usar nuestra herramienta de asistencia local para localizar oficinas y recursos cercanos (página solo en inglés). Ahí pueden obtener asesoría para ver si les conviene nuestro Programa de desarrollo empresarial 8(a). La SBA realiza actividades de extensión para ser más incluyente con los propietarios LGBTQ+ de empresas, y su personal acoge y reconoce la importancia de que haya más inclusión en todos los niveles y en todas las comunidades. Certificación de pequeñas empresas propiedad de LGBTQ+ ¿Le interesa certificar su empresa propiedad de personas LGBTQ+? La Cámara Nacional de Comercio LGBT (NGLCC, por sus siglas en inglés) ofrece una certificación para pequeñas empresas propiedad de personas LGBTQ+ (solo en inglés). Las empresas certificadas son muy solicitadas por los socios corporativos de la NGLCC que desean aumentar sus inversiones en la comunidad LGBTQ+. También se benefician de programas de becas, mentores, capacitación y otros recursos de desarrollo empresarial después de un año.
### https://prod.sba.gov/business-guide/grow-your-business/lgbtq-owned-businesses


LGBTQ-owned businesses [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://prod.sba.gov/business-guide/grow-your-business/lgbtq-owned-businesses)

> Content LGBTQ+ inclusion and outreach Business owners can use our local assistance tool to find nearby offices and resources. There, you can get counseling on whether our 8(a) Business Development program is right for you. SBA conducts outreach to be more inclusive of LGBTQ+ business owners, and our staff welcomes and recognizes the importance of greater inclusion at all levels and in all communities. LGBTQ-owned small business certification Interested in certifying your LGBTQ+-owned business? The National LGBT Chamber of Commerce offers a certification for LGBTQ-owned small businesses. Certified businesses are in high demand by NGLCC Corporate Partners seeking to increase their spend with the LGBTQ+ community. They also benefit from scholarship programs, mentorship, training, and other business development resources after one year.
### https://prod.sba.gov/es/acerca-de-la-sba/organizacion/conmemoraciones/mes-del-orgullo-lgbtq


Mes del Orgullo LGBTQ+ [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://prod.sba.gov/es/acerca-de-la-sba/organizacion/conmemoraciones/mes-del-orgullo-lgbtq)

> Contenido La SBA celebra el Mes del Orgullo Las empresas LGBTQ+ en los Estados Unidos contribuyen alrededor de $1.7 trillones a la economía del país (detalles en inglés), creando miles de nuevos empleos cada año. Cada junio, la SBA celebra a los empresarios innovadores y emprendedores de la comunidad LGBTQ+ que brindan servicios esenciales y diversifican nuestras comunidades. Cronología del orgullo - Chicago, 1924. Se forma la Sociedad para los Derechos Humanos, la primera organización de derechos LGBTQ+ en los Estados Unidos. - Ciudad de Nueva York, 1930. El Stonewall Inn abre sus puertas en el corazón de Greenwich Village, en el bajo Manhattan. - San Francisco, 1956. Comienza en San Francisco "The Ladder", la primera publicación lésbica de distribución nacional. - Nueva York, 1967. Se inaugura en Nueva York la librería Oscar Wilde Memorial, la primera librería dedicada a autores gays y lesbianas. - San Francisco, 1972. Harvey Milk, el primer funcionario electo abiertamente gay en la historia de California, abre la Cámara Castro. - A nivel nacional, 2004. La Cámara Nacional de Comercio de Gays y Lesbianas crea el mejor programa de certificación de diversidad en su tipo para empresas LGBTQ+. - A nivel nacional, 2014. La SBA organiza la gira "Many Faces. One Dream." para empoderar a las comunidades LGBTQ+ de color. - San Rafael, 2016. La SBA nombra a Equator Coffee como Pequeña Empresa del Año, la primera empresa de personas LGBTQ+ que reciben ese reconocimiento. - A nivel nacional, 2020. El Tribunal Supremo de los EE. UU. ordena que la Ley de Derechos Civiles de 1964 protege a los empleados gays, lesbianas y transexuales contra la discriminación por razón de sexo. Empiece o haga crecer su negocio La SBA ayuda a los empresarios con el acceso al capital, asesoría y oportunidades de negocio. Los siguientes recursos le ayudarán a empezar: Eventos Infórmese sobre próximos eventos de interés para dueños de pequeños negocios de la comunidad LGBTQ+ disponibles en inglés. Recursos adicionales (en inglés) - Recursos de la Biblioteca del Congreso para empresas y lugares de trabajo de la comunidad LGBTQ+ - Recursos de la Comisión de Igualdad en el Empleo sobre derechos en el lugar de trabajo, orientación sexual e identidad de género - Protección del Departamento de Justicia de los derechos de las personas lesbianas, gays, bisexuales, transgénero e intersexuales (LGBTI)
### https://prod.sba.gov/article/2024/06/18/op-ed-beto-yarce-celebrating-progress-working-toward-brighter-future


Op-ed by Beto Yarce: Celebrating Progress and Working Toward a Brighter Future [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://prod.sba.gov/article/2024/06/18/op-ed-beto-yarce-celebrating-progress-working-toward-brighter-future)

> As leaders within the LGBTQ+ community, we celebrate the tremendous progress made in advancing equality, justice and inclusion in the 55 years since the 1969 Stonewall Riots in New York City. We also recognize that this crucial work continues and remain committed to equality, justice and inclusion for our community and all marginalized people. During Pride Month, we reflect on our journey so far. Just a couple of decades ago, it was common for most of us who identified as LGBTQ+ to live in fear of losing relationships with our families and friends should our sexual identities be disclosed. The fear of losing our livelihoods was very real unless we were able to pretend to be someone we weren’t. The self-employed refrained from being our authentic selves given that potential customers might refuse to do business with us and that it might be more difficult to find employees. Small businesses have frequently been at the forefront of both recognizing and accepting those who identify as LGBTQ+. Many entrepreneurs welcomed those who felt excluded from other businesses by providing safe spaces to gather, build networks and simply be ourselves. These included coffee shops, bookstores and other centers of communities. While attitudes towards acceptance have evolved in the ensuing years, unfortunately, there are many within our community who are still excluded and unsupported. While we continue to address and break down these barriers, we’d like to recognize that numerous recent successes have helped to ease some of these challenges, thanks in full to the hard work of the LGBTQ+ community and its allies. For example: - GSBA was founded in 1981 in Washington State and is now the largest LGBTQ+ Chamber of Commerce in North America. - The National Gay & Lesbian Chamber created a best-in-class diversity certification program for LGBTQ+ businesses in 2004. - Forward-thinking businesses throughout the state and region have joined together to encourage customers and businesses to welcome those who identify as LGBTQ+. - LGBTQ+ businesses help power our national economy to the tune of an estimated $1.7 trillion annually while generating thousands of new jobs in our local communities each year. Pride Month is an ideal time for those who strive for a more inclusive world to be intentional in our actions and words. We are unified in our belief that advancing entrepreneurship is key to financial independence, prosperity and the betterment of our families, communities and nation. We believe that entrepreneurship also contributes to our personal feelings of well-being, accomplishment and connection. We ask you to join us during Pride Month to stand together in support of the American dream of business ownership. This includes advocating for small business, working to eliminate barriers experienced by those facing discrimination and connecting them to resources. Regardless of what Americans believe in other arenas such as politics, according to surveys conducted by Pew Research, Gallup and others, the overwhelming majority of Americans trust small businesses and strongly believe in their importance including how they shape and support thriving communities. Whether you currently own a business or are thinking of starting one, there are resources available through supporters like the U.S. Small Business Administration, GSBA and other local organizations. There are also trainings and resources specifically designed for those facing challenges due to being LGBTQ+. Leaders within our community and our allies work diligently both in the spotlight and behind the scenes to ensure everyone has the opportunity to live their authentic self and is recognized for their inherent human value. We are committed to rolling up our sleeves to advance entrepreneurship as a means to financial independence. We agree that this can be achieved via fair and equitable access to business opportunities, capital, training and entrepreneurial resources. We believe in the American ideal that progress and prosperity is only achieved when we treat all others with dignity and respect. We invite you to stand with us during Pride Month in our support of the American dream of small business ownership. Won’t you join us in this journey? For more information on how the SBA can assist your small business start, grow or expand, please visit www.sba.gov. Para Español visita www.sba.gov/es. Ilona Lohrey is President and Chief Executive Officer of GSBA, Washington’s LGBTQ and allied chamber of commerce, which was founded in 1981 and represents over 1,400 businesses. Beto Yarce was appointed by President Joe Biden to oversee the SBA’s programs and services as the agency’s Regional Administrator for the Pacific Northwest serving Alaska, Idaho, Oregon and Washington. # # # About GSBA GSBA was created in 1981 and is now the largest chamber of commerce for LGBTQ+ and allied members in North America. With more than 1,400 members, GSBA provides a supportive platform for entrepreneurs, small to medium-sized businesses, corporations and nonprofits dedicated to workplace diversity and equality in Washington State. To learn more, visit www.thegsba.org . About the U.S. Small Business Administration The U.S. Small Business Administration makes the American dream of business ownership a reality. As the only go-to resource and voice for small businesses backed by the strength of the federal government, the SBA empowers entrepreneurs and small business owners with the resources and support they need to start, grow or expand their businesses, or recover from a declared disaster. It delivers services through an extensive network of SBA field offices and partnerships with public and private organizations. To learn more, visit www.sba.gov.
### https://prod.sba.gov/blog/2023/2023-06/pride-month-tips-lgbtq-small-businesses


Pride Month Tips for LGBTQ+ Small Businesses [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://prod.sba.gov/blog/2023/2023-06/pride-month-tips-lgbtq-small-businesses)

> Since the beginning of the Biden Administration, Administrator Guzman has made it a top priority to advance inclusion and equity for LGBTQ+ small business owners. This Pride Month, the SBA is celebrating the everyday impact that LGBTQ+ entrepreneurs have in their communities and providing tips for how we can help these businesses continue to grow. Entrepreneurs like Rachel Kalenberg and her partner, Ariane Jimison, envisioned a fun, inclusive space for artisan foods and memorable experiences in Gillette, WY. The couple contacted their local Small Business Development Center (SBDC) to get their wood-fired mobile pizza oven, Pizza Carrello, up and running in 2011. Several workshops, trainings, and SBA-backed loans later, Pizza Carrello has grown from a modest food cart to a full-service, brick-and-mortar restaurant. Just recently, Kalenberg and Jimison were recognized as SBA’s 2023 Small Business Persons of the Year for Wyoming. Through programs and other resources, the SBA is committed to supporting LGBTQ+-owned businesses around the country. Here are some tips that LGBTQ+ entrepreneurs can use to achieve their goals: Leverage the SBA’s Network for LGBTQ+ Businesses. SBA’s Network for LGBTQ+ businesses empowers its community through outreach, inclusion, and access to resources. It starts with SBA district offices, many of which have a strategic alliance with the LGBTQ+ community. Find the one nearest to you through a quick search. - Obtain Your LGBTQ-Owned Small Business Certification. Did you know that you can get certified as an LGBTQ-owned business? The National LGBT Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC) can help. Aside from being in high demand by NGLCC’s corporate partners seeking to increase their investments in the LGBTQ+ business community, certified businesses also benefit from scholarship programs, mentorship and training opportunities, and other business development tools after one year. - Connect with an SBA Resource Partner. The SBA is proud to offer no- or low-cost counseling and training through its network of resource partners. At over 900 Small Business Development Centers (SBDCs) nationwide, small business owners can find advising and technical assistance on everything from growth and expansion to productivity and innovation. SBA partner SCORE, America’s largest network of volunteer business mentors, connects entrepreneurs with mentors in their area. There are also Veterans Business Outreach Centers, Women’s Business Centers, and Community Navigators, the latter of which works to reduce barriers for underrepresented and underserved entrepreneurs looking to tap into the programs they need to start, grow, expand, or recover their business. - Consider Applying for an SBA-Guaranteed Loan. Individuals who may not qualify for traditional financing, can apply for SBA-guaranteed loans, which include competitive terms, lower down payments, and flexible overhead requirements. Ranging from small to large, SBA-guaranteed loans reduce lender risk and make it possible for owners to obtain funding for most business purposes, including long-term fixed assets and operating capital. Use the SBA’s Lender Match tool to explore your options. - The SBA is celebrating Pride Month with the LGBTQ+ business community. Be sure to see what events are in store at sba.gov/events.
### https://prod.sba.gov/blog/pride-month-sba-celebrates-lgbtq-small-business-community


This Pride Month, the SBA Celebrates the LGBTQ+ Small Business Community [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://prod.sba.gov/blog/pride-month-sba-celebrates-lgbtq-small-business-community)

> Pride Month is a celebration of many things — equality, empowerment, and solidarity among them. From the day the nation’s first Lesbian, Gay, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ+) rights organization opened in 1924 to the moment Equator Coffees became the first LGBTQ+ owned business to be recognized as the SBA’s Small Business of the Year in 2016 — and every day since — these values have served as a driving force on the road to progress and unity. As America continues its embrace of diversity and inclusion, the SBA stands ready to support LGBTQ+ entrepreneurs this June and beyond. According to the most recent data from the National Gay & Lesbian Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC), the LGBTQ+ business community includes 1.4 million business owners. And by their projections, the NGLCC estimates that LGBTQ-owned businesses contribute over a trillion dollars to the U.S. economy. The SBA aims to bring continued economic success and growth to the LGBTQ+ small business community. With nearly 80% of LGBTQ+ businesses expected to make a full recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic in 2022, there has never been a better time than now. LGBTQ+ Inclusion and Outreach The SBA's Network for LGBTQ+ Businesses is a strong support system that seeks to unlock the great potential of the LGBTQ+ small business community. The SBA constantly conducts outreach to be more inclusive of LGBTQ+ business owners, and our staff encourages greater inclusion at all levels and in all communities. Additionally, a plethora of SBA services and resources are available to LGBTQ+ entrepreneurs. It all starts with SBA district offices, many of which have a strategic alliance with the LGBTQ+ community. A quick search can help you find the one nearest to you. LGBTQ-Owned Small Business Certification If you are interested in certifying your LGBTQ-owned business, the NGLCC can help. Their certification program gives companies access to hundreds of corporate contacts, which can lead to strategic relationships and opportunities at NGLCC networking events across the country. Certified businesses are often in high demand by NGLCC Corporate Partners seeking to increase their spend with the LGBTQ+ business community. Plus, certification opens the door for scholarship programs, mentorship and training opportunities, and other business development tools after one year. Local Assistance Did you know that the SBA and its Resource Partners offer free or low-cost counseling and training to entrepreneurs across the country? Through Small Business Development Centers, the SBA provides individualized entrepreneurial services that address unique needs. Through SCORE, small business owners can connect with business mentors in their area. Veterans Business Outreach Centers, Women’s Business Centers, and Community Navigators are also standing by to give small business owners the tools they need to succeed. SBA-Guaranteed Loans Underserved and underrepresented entrepreneurs have historically faced barriers in accessing the funds they need to start or grow their business. In recognition of this, the SBA has established SBA-backed loans that reduce risk and make it possible for business owners to match with approved lenders. Use Lender Match to find an SBA-backed loan today. A more inclusive marketplace is one where all business owners can thrive. In the spirt of Pride Month, the SBA is proud to help deliver on this promise for the LGBTQ+ small business community.
### https://prod.sba.gov/about-sba/organization/observances/lgbtq-pride-month


U.S. Small Business Administration [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://prod.sba.gov/about-sba/organization/observances/lgbtq-pride-month)

> Content SBA celebrates Pride Month LGBTQ+ businesses in the United States contribute an estimated $1.7 trillion to America's economy, creating thousands of new jobs each year. Every June, SBA celebrates the LGBTQ+ innovators and entrepreneurs who provide essential services and diversify our communities. Pride timeline Chicago, 1924. The Society for Human Rights opens in Chicago, the first LGBTQ+ rights organization in the country. - New York City, 1930. The Stonewall Inn opens its doors in the heart of Greenwich Village in lower Manhattan. - San Francisco, 1956. The Ladder, the first nationally distributed lesbian publication, begins in San Francisco. - New York City, 1967. The Oscar Wilde Memorial Bookstore, the first bookstore devoted to gay and lesbian authors, opens in New York City. - San Francisco, 1972. Harvey Milk, the first openly gay elected official in the history of California, opens Castro Camera. - Nationwide, 2004. The National Gay & Lesbian Chamber of Commerce creates best-in-class diversity certification program for LGBTQ+ businesses. - Nationwide, 2014. SBA hosts the Many Faces. One Dream. tour to empower LGBTQ+ communities of color. - San Rafael, 2016. SBA names Equator Coffee as the Small Business of the Year, the first LGBTQ+ owned business to win the honor. - Nationwide, 2020. The U.S. Supreme Court rules that the 1964 Civil Rights Act protects gay, lesbian, and transgender employees from discrimination based on sex. - Start or grow your business SBA helps entrepreneurs with access to capital, mentorship, and business opportunities. The following resources will help you get started: Events Explore upcoming events of interest to LGBTQ+ small business owners. More resources LGBTQ+ Resources in Business and the Workplace from the Library of Congress - Resources on Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity Workplace Rights from the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission - Protecting the Rights of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Intersex Individuals from the Department of Justice -
## [Small Business Administration](www.sba.gov): ~12 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://www.sba.gov/es/guia-de-negocios/haga-crecer-su-empresa/empresas-propiedad-de-lgbtq


Empresas propiedad de LGBTQ [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.sba.gov/es/guia-de-negocios/haga-crecer-su-empresa/empresas-propiedad-de-lgbtq)

> Contenido Inclusión y extensión de la comunidad LGBTQ+ Los propietarios de empresas pueden usar nuestra herramienta de asistencia local para localizar oficinas y recursos cercanos (página solo en inglés). Ahí pueden obtener asesoría para ver si les conviene nuestro Programa de desarrollo empresarial 8(a). La SBA realiza actividades de extensión para ser más incluyente con los propietarios LGBTQ+ de empresas, y su personal acoge y reconoce la importancia de que haya más inclusión en todos los niveles y en todas las comunidades. Certificación de pequeñas empresas propiedad de LGBTQ+ ¿Le interesa certificar su empresa propiedad de personas LGBTQ+? La Cámara Nacional de Comercio LGBT (NGLCC, por sus siglas en inglés) ofrece una certificación para pequeñas empresas propiedad de personas LGBTQ+ (solo en inglés). Las empresas certificadas son muy solicitadas por los socios corporativos de la NGLCC que desean aumentar sus inversiones en la comunidad LGBTQ+. También se benefician de programas de becas, mentores, capacitación y otros recursos de desarrollo empresarial después de un año.
### https://www.sba.gov/blog/2024/2024-05/happy-pride-month-sba-resources-lgbtq-small-businesses


Happy Pride Month: SBA Resources for LGBTQ+ Small Businesses [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.sba.gov/blog/2024/2024-05/happy-pride-month-sba-resources-lgbtq-small-businesses)

> From Main Street to metropolitan America, LGBTQ+-owned businesses are making a difference by enriching and diversifying their communities. The SBA recognizes that everyday impact this Pride Month. We remain steadfast in our commitment to LGBTQ+ entrepreneurs as they pursue their dreams of business ownership. The following SBA resources can be leveraged to help individuals start and grow their businesses. - LGBTQ-Owned Small Business Certification. The National LGBT Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC) can help you get certified as an LGBTQ-owned small business. Certified businesses are in high demand by NGLCC Corporate Partners seeking to increase their spend with the LGBTQ+ community. They also benefit from scholarship programs, mentorship, training, and other business development resources after one year. - SBA Resource Partners. No- or low-cost counseling, training, technical assistance, and more can be found through the SBA’s 1,600-plus-strong network of resource partners. Entrepreneurs are encouraged to connect with Small Business Development Centers (SBDC) and SCORE for expert advising and mentorship. There are also Veterans Business Outreach Centers and Women’s Business Centers, which specialize in services for vetrepreneurs and women entrepreneurs respectively. - SBA-Guaranteed Loans. SBA funding programs work to expand access to capital for groups that may have a history of being financially underserved. SBA-guaranteed loans reduce lender risk and make it possible for owners to obtain funding with competitive terms, lower down payments, and flexible overhead requirements. - 8(a) Business Development Program. Eligible entrepreneurs who are socially disadvantaged may receive business training and government contracting assistance through the SBA’s 8(a) Business Development Program. Participating businesses benefit from coaching and technical assistance designed to help them compete more effectively in the American economy. Building an economy that works for everyone remains a top priority for the SBA. To that end, we look forward to lifting up the LGBTQ+ business community this Pride Month and beyond. Find out what events are planned throughout the month of June at sba.gov/events.
### https://www.sba.gov/business-guide/grow-your-business/lgbtq-owned-businesses


LGBTQ-owned businesses [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.sba.gov/business-guide/grow-your-business/lgbtq-owned-businesses)

> Content LGBTQ+ inclusion and outreach Business owners can use our local assistance tool to find nearby offices and resources. There, you can get counseling on whether our 8(a) Business Development program is right for you. SBA conducts outreach to be more inclusive of LGBTQ+ business owners, and our staff welcomes and recognizes the importance of greater inclusion at all levels and in all communities. LGBTQ-owned small business certification Interested in certifying your LGBTQ+-owned business? The National LGBT Chamber of Commerce offers a certification for LGBTQ-owned small businesses. Certified businesses are in high demand by NGLCC Corporate Partners seeking to increase their spend with the LGBTQ+ community. They also benefit from scholarship programs, mentorship, training, and other business development resources after one year.
### https://www.sba.gov/es/acerca-de-la-sba/organizacion/conmemoraciones/mes-del-orgullo-lgbtq


Mes del Orgullo LGBTQ+ [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.sba.gov/es/acerca-de-la-sba/organizacion/conmemoraciones/mes-del-orgullo-lgbtq)

> Contenido La SBA celebra el Mes del Orgullo Las empresas LGBTQ+ en los Estados Unidos contribuyen alrededor de $1.7 trillones a la economía del país (detalles en inglés), creando miles de nuevos empleos cada año. Cada junio, la SBA celebra a los empresarios innovadores y emprendedores de la comunidad LGBTQ+ que brindan servicios esenciales y diversifican nuestras comunidades. Cronología del orgullo Chicago, 1924. Se forma la Sociedad para los Derechos Humanos, la primera organización de derechos LGBTQ+ en los Estados Unidos. - Ciudad de Nueva York, 1930. El Stonewall Inn abre sus puertas en el corazón de Greenwich Village, en el bajo Manhattan. - San Francisco, 1956. Comienza en San Francisco "The Ladder", la primera publicación lésbica de distribución nacional. - Nueva York, 1967. Se inaugura en Nueva York la librería Oscar Wilde Memorial, la primera librería dedicada a autores gays y lesbianas. - San Francisco, 1972. Harvey Milk, el primer funcionario electo abiertamente gay en la historia de California, abre la Cámara Castro. - A nivel nacional, 2004. La Cámara Nacional de Comercio de Gays y Lesbianas crea el mejor programa de certificación de diversidad en su tipo para empresas LGBTQ+. - A nivel nacional, 2014. La SBA organiza la gira "Many Faces. One Dream." para empoderar a las comunidades LGBTQ+ de color. - San Rafael, 2016. La SBA nombra a Equator Coffee como Pequeña Empresa del Año, la primera empresa de personas LGBTQ+ que reciben ese reconocimiento. - A nivel nacional, 2020. El Tribunal Supremo de los EE. UU. ordena que la Ley de Derechos Civiles de 1964 protege a los empleados gays, lesbianas y transexuales contra la discriminación por razón de sexo. - Empiece o haga crecer su negocio La SBA ayuda a los empresarios con el acceso al capital, asesoría y oportunidades de negocio. Los siguientes recursos le ayudarán a empezar: Eventos Infórmese sobre próximos eventos de interés para dueños de pequeños negocios de la comunidad LGBTQ+ disponibles en inglés. Recursos adicionales (en inglés) Recursos de la Biblioteca del Congreso para empresas y lugares de trabajo de la comunidad LGBTQ+ - Recursos de la Comisión de Igualdad en el Empleo sobre derechos en el lugar de trabajo, orientación sexual e identidad de género - Protección del Departamento de Justicia de los derechos de las personas lesbianas, gays, bisexuales, transgénero e intersexuales (LGBTI) -
### https://www.sba.gov/blog/2023/2023-06/pride-month-tips-lgbtq-small-businesses


Pride Month Tips for LGBTQ+ Small Businesses [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.sba.gov/blog/2023/2023-06/pride-month-tips-lgbtq-small-businesses)

> Since the beginning of the Biden Administration, Administrator Guzman has made it a top priority to advance inclusion and equity for LGBTQ+ small business owners. This Pride Month, the SBA is celebrating the everyday impact that LGBTQ+ entrepreneurs have in their communities and providing tips for how we can help these businesses continue to grow. Entrepreneurs like Rachel Kalenberg and her partner, Ariane Jimison, envisioned a fun, inclusive space for artisan foods and memorable experiences in Gillette, WY. The couple contacted their local Small Business Development Center (SBDC) to get their wood-fired mobile pizza oven, Pizza Carrello, up and running in 2011. Several workshops, trainings, and SBA-backed loans later, Pizza Carrello has grown from a modest food cart to a full-service, brick-and-mortar restaurant. Just recently, Kalenberg and Jimison were recognized as SBA’s 2023 Small Business Persons of the Year for Wyoming. Through programs and other resources, the SBA is committed to supporting LGBTQ+-owned businesses around the country. Here are some tips that LGBTQ+ entrepreneurs can use to achieve their goals: - Leverage the SBA’s Network for LGBTQ+ Businesses. SBA’s Network for LGBTQ+ businesses empowers its community through outreach, inclusion, and access to resources. It starts with SBA district offices, many of which have a strategic alliance with the LGBTQ+ community. Find the one nearest to you through a quick search. - Obtain Your LGBTQ-Owned Small Business Certification. Did you know that you can get certified as an LGBTQ-owned business? The National LGBT Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC) can help. Aside from being in high demand by NGLCC’s corporate partners seeking to increase their investments in the LGBTQ+ business community, certified businesses also benefit from scholarship programs, mentorship and training opportunities, and other business development tools after one year. - Connect with an SBA Resource Partner. The SBA is proud to offer no- or low-cost counseling and training through its network of resource partners. At over 900 Small Business Development Centers (SBDCs) nationwide, small business owners can find advising and technical assistance on everything from growth and expansion to productivity and innovation. SBA partner SCORE, America’s largest network of volunteer business mentors, connects entrepreneurs with mentors in their area. There are also Veterans Business Outreach Centers, Women’s Business Centers, and Community Navigators, the latter of which works to reduce barriers for underrepresented and underserved entrepreneurs looking to tap into the programs they need to start, grow, expand, or recover their business. - Consider Applying for an SBA-Guaranteed Loan. Individuals who may not qualify for traditional financing, can apply for SBA-guaranteed loans, which include competitive terms, lower down payments, and flexible overhead requirements. Ranging from small to large, SBA-guaranteed loans reduce lender risk and make it possible for owners to obtain funding for most business purposes, including long-term fixed assets and operating capital. Use the SBA’s Lender Match tool to explore your options. The SBA is celebrating Pride Month with the LGBTQ+ business community. Be sure to see what events are in store at sba.gov/events.