



# [International Trade Administration](trade.gov): ~4 pages censored since 1/20/25

## [International Trade Administration](www.trade.gov): ~4 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://www.trade.gov/feature-article/ita-employee-launches-lgbtq-resource-site


ITA Employee Launches LGBTQ Resource Site [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.trade.gov/feature-article/ita-employee-launches-lgbtq-resource-site)

> ITA Employee Launches LGBTQ Resource Site On January 20, 2021, President Biden issued Executive Order #13988 â Preventing and Combating Discrimination on the Basis of Gender Identity or Sexual Orientation - which affirmed that âevery person should be treated with respect and dignity and should be able to live without fear, no matter who they are or whom they love. And all persons should receive equal treatment under the law, no matter their gender identity or sexual orientation.â The GMâs Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Global Operations wanted to make it clear that ITA does not, and will not, condone workplace discrimination against lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer (LGBTQ) employees. To demonstrate its resolve, Sean McAlister voluntarily created a new virtual center for LGBTQ resources for employees called the âSafe Zone Project.â Seanâs Safe Zone Project makes the departmentâs work environment more accessible, inclusive, and engaging for all LGBTQ employees and their allies. The very existence of the new Safe Zone Project personifies the ideals that Department shares for acceptance and inclusiveness as it continues its work to build a society where every child grows up knowing that their country supports them, is proud of them, and has a place for them exactly as they are. When Sean McAlister started designing the new LGBTQ+ Safe Zone Project in August 2021, it was envisioned as an online Global Markets resource center dedicated to human rights awareness and marginalized LBGTQ+ employeesâ needs. In December 2021, the scope of his program was broadened to serve all Commerce employees and contractors. To meet this greater need, Sean partnered with the Departmentâs Office of Civil Rights and DOC Commerce Pride resource group to enhance his site with new LGBTQ curricula, online LinkedIn Learning courses, Commerce-produced videos, job aids, and other federal resources. The result yielded a treasure trove of diversity, equality, inclusion, and awareness (DEIA) tools that would help Commerce LGBTQ employees and their allies. Sean also built the site to be static so that it could expand from year-to-year with new LGBTQ courses and videos in its growing learning resource library. Seanâs efforts were rewarded on June 29, 2022, when the Secretary of Commerce and the Acting Director for the Office of Civil Rights, launched the Safe Zone Project to the Departmentâs 70,000+ employees and contractors. As of June 30, 2022, eight of the twelve Commerce bureaus, had added a Safe Zone Projecthyperlink on their bureauâs human resource pages, thereby demonstrating the positive impact that Seanâs extracurricular work has had to the Department and ITA.
## [Tradeology, The Official ITA Blog](blog.trade.gov): ~4 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://blog.trade.gov/2021/06/17/spotlight-on-pride-month-jeff-dutton-commercial-service-officer/


Spotlight on Pride Month: Jeff Dutton, Commercial Service Officer [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://blog.trade.gov/2021/06/17/spotlight-on-pride-month-jeff-dutton-commercial-service-officer/)

> Spotlight on Pride Month: Jeff Dutton, Commercial Service Officer June 17, 2021Jeff Dutton is a Commercial Officer based in Shanghai, China This post coincides with the Department of Commerce’s spotlight on LGBT Pride Month. This post contains external links. Please review our external linking policy. I work at ITA’s U.S. Commercial Service office in Shanghai, China, supervising a team of 7 local staff and 2 fellow commercial officers. We offer a variety of export promotion services to small and medium-sized U.S. companies. Whether it’s a consumer product such as air fresheners or nutritional supplements, or a service provider helping industrial parks in China use less energy and lower carbon emissions, my colleagues and I help connect U.S. companies with potential agents, distributors, and customers in China. As a college student in my home state of Arkansas, I studied abroad in Spain, Mexico, and Japan. I decided to pursue my interest in international trade and economics with a Master’s degree in International Relations at the Maxwell School of Public Affairs at Syracuse University in New York. A Maxwell School alumna who had landed at ITA recommended that I apply for several ITA jobs. I didn’t get the first job that I interviewed for, but I kept trying and in 1998 was offered an International Trade Specialist position. What excites me about export promotion and commercial diplomacy is that it brings people together for mutually beneficial economic exchange while at the same time helping communities across America by creating good-paying jobs. I also enjoy meeting business owners who succeeded in expanding their operations and hiring more American workers as a result of trade agreements ITA helped negotiate or a contract signed with a foreign distributor that my teammates introduced them to. International trade is inherently cross-cultural and being a successful practitioner of it requires sensitivity to other cultures, flexibility in the way you communicate, and a readiness to expect the unexpected. I think that many members of the LGBTQ+ community have honed these skills for a variety of reasons, but partially because many of us felt not quite at home in the communities where we grew up, even if we did have supportive and loving families (as I had, even in rural Arkansas). So there may be a disproportionately higher number of LGBTQ+ people in organizations like the State Department, ITA, and the Foreign Agricultural Service. On the customer side, there are many LGBTQ+ owned and -led businesses in the United States who are our clients, particularly in the travel and leisure, design, and other creative industries. As U.S. exports become more service-oriented, knowledge-based and creative, it will be important to engage this dynamic segment of the American economy. For those in the LGBTQ+ community interested in expanding your business through international sales, please take advantage of ITA’s many low-cost services for U.S. small- and medium-size exporters. Go to Trade.gov and check out the growing number of free market intelligence reports from virtually every major market worldwide where the Commercial Service has offices. Also on trade.gov, find your local U.S. office of the Commercial Service and give our expert colleagues near you a call to explore your options and brainstorm about best prospects.
### https://blog.trade.gov/category/miscellaneous/


Tradeology, the ITA Blog [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://blog.trade.gov/category/miscellaneous/)

> Jeff Dutton is a Commercial Officer based in Shanghai, China This post coincides with the Department of Commerce’s spotlight on LGBT Pride Month. This post contains external links. Please review our external linking policy. I work at ITA’s U.S. Commercial Service office in Shanghai, China, supervising a team of 7 local staff and 2 fellow commercial officers. We offer a variety of export promotion services to small and medium-sized U.S. companies. Whether it’s a consumer product such as air fresheners or nutritional supplements, or a service provider helping industrial parks in China use less energy and lower carbon emissions, my colleagues and I help connect U.S. companies with potential agents, distributors, and customers in China. As a college student in my home state of Arkansas, I studied abroad in Spain, Mexico, and Japan. I decided to pursue my interest in international trade and economics with a Master’s degree in International Relations at the Maxwell School of Public Affairs at Syracuse University in New York. A Maxwell School alumna who had landed at ITA recommended that I apply for several ITA jobs. I didn’t get the first job that I interviewed for, but I kept trying and in 1998 was offered an International Trade Specialist position. What excites me about export promotion and commercial diplomacy is that it brings people together for mutually beneficial economic exchange while at the same time helping communities across America by creating good-paying jobs. I also enjoy meeting business owners who succeeded in expanding their operations and hiring more American workers as a result of trade agreements ITA helped negotiate or a contract signed with a foreign distributor that my teammates introduced them to. International trade is inherently cross-cultural and being a successful practitioner of it requires sensitivity to other cultures, flexibility in the way you communicate, and a readiness to expect the unexpected. I think that many members of the LGBTQ+ community have honed these skills for a variety of reasons, but partially because many of us felt not quite at home in the communities where we grew up, even if we did have supportive and loving families (as I had, even in rural Arkansas). So there may be a disproportionately higher number of LGBTQ+ people in organizations like the State Department, ITA, and the Foreign Agricultural Service. On the customer side, there are many LGBTQ+ owned and -led businesses in the United States who are our clients, particularly in the travel and leisure, design, and other creative industries. As U.S. exports become more service-oriented, knowledge-based and creative, it will be important to engage this dynamic segment of the American economy. For those in the LGBTQ+ community interested in expanding your business through international sales, please take advantage of ITA’s many low-cost services for U.S. small- and medium-size exporters. Go to Trade.gov and check out the growing number of free market intelligence reports from virtually every major market worldwide where the Commercial Service has offices. Also on trade.gov, find your local U.S. office of the Commercial Service and give our expert colleagues near you a call to explore your options and brainstorm about best prospects.
### https://blog.trade.gov/category/spotlight-on-commerce/


Tradeology, the ITA Blog [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://blog.trade.gov/category/spotlight-on-commerce/)

> Jeff Dutton is a Commercial Officer based in Shanghai, China This post coincides with the Department of Commerce’s spotlight on LGBT Pride Month. This post contains external links. Please review our external linking policy. I work at ITA’s U.S. Commercial Service office in Shanghai, China, supervising a team of 7 local staff and 2 fellow commercial officers. We offer a variety of export promotion services to small and medium-sized U.S. companies. Whether it’s a consumer product such as air fresheners or nutritional supplements, or a service provider helping industrial parks in China use less energy and lower carbon emissions, my colleagues and I help connect U.S. companies with potential agents, distributors, and customers in China. As a college student in my home state of Arkansas, I studied abroad in Spain, Mexico, and Japan. I decided to pursue my interest in international trade and economics with a Master’s degree in International Relations at the Maxwell School of Public Affairs at Syracuse University in New York. A Maxwell School alumna who had landed at ITA recommended that I apply for several ITA jobs. I didn’t get the first job that I interviewed for, but I kept trying and in 1998 was offered an International Trade Specialist position. What excites me about export promotion and commercial diplomacy is that it brings people together for mutually beneficial economic exchange while at the same time helping communities across America by creating good-paying jobs. I also enjoy meeting business owners who succeeded in expanding their operations and hiring more American workers as a result of trade agreements ITA helped negotiate or a contract signed with a foreign distributor that my teammates introduced them to. International trade is inherently cross-cultural and being a successful practitioner of it requires sensitivity to other cultures, flexibility in the way you communicate, and a readiness to expect the unexpected. I think that many members of the LGBTQ+ community have honed these skills for a variety of reasons, but partially because many of us felt not quite at home in the communities where we grew up, even if we did have supportive and loving families (as I had, even in rural Arkansas). So there may be a disproportionately higher number of LGBTQ+ people in organizations like the State Department, ITA, and the Foreign Agricultural Service. On the customer side, there are many LGBTQ+ owned and -led businesses in the United States who are our clients, particularly in the travel and leisure, design, and other creative industries. As U.S. exports become more service-oriented, knowledge-based and creative, it will be important to engage this dynamic segment of the American economy. For those in the LGBTQ+ community interested in expanding your business through international sales, please take advantage of ITA’s many low-cost services for U.S. small- and medium-size exporters. Go to Trade.gov and check out the growing number of free market intelligence reports from virtually every major market worldwide where the Commercial Service has offices. Also on trade.gov, find your local U.S. office of the Commercial Service and give our expert colleagues near you a call to explore your options and brainstorm about best prospects.