



# [Welcome - Tribal Information ExchangeCapacity Building Center for Tribes](tribalinformationexchange.org): ~8 pages censored since 1/20/25

## [Creating Safe Welcoming Spaces for TSLGBTQ+ Youth](https://tribalinformationexchange.org/index.php/2020/04/15/creating-safe-welcoming-spaces-for-tslgbtq-youth/)


> (Webinar Handout) Tribal and State child welfare organizations, staff, Tribal leaders, mental health professionals, foster families, and all community members can help to create safe and welcoming environments for Native youth that may identify as Two-Spirit and/or LGBTQ+. This handout was used during the two-part webinar series: Walking in Two Worlds: Understanding the Impact of Historical and Intergenerational Trauma on the Two-Spirit/Native LGBTQ Community - Supporting Two-Spirit/Native LGBTQ Youth - Date: August, 2018
## [Sharing our Lived Experiences: 22 Tips for Caring for Two-Spirit and Native LGBTQ Youth in the Child Welfare System](https://tribalinformationexchange.org/index.php/2016/07/28/sharing-our-lived-experiences-22-tips-for-carling-for-two-spirit-and-native-lgbtq-youth-in-the-child-welfare-system/)


> Author abstract: “Describes the meaning of the Native American term “two-spirit”âa person whose body simultaneously houses a masculine spirit and a feminine spiritâand the challenges faced by two-spirit Native people today as well as recommendations for working with two-spirit and lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and questioning (LGBTQ) Native youth in the child welfare system.”
## [Strengthening Families](https://tribalinformationexchange.org/index.php/strengtheningfamilies/)


> Strengthening Families Child welfare professionals help families to reflect, learn, and build skills for the life they want for themselves, their children, and their community. To do this challenging work effectively, it is important for professionals to also build their self-awareness, knowledge, skills, and to practice self-care. The products in this section focus on this type of worker preparation as well as understanding the needs of those in your community, and a variety of tools that are available to child welfare professionals. Engaging Families Working with Families This e-learning acknowledges family strengths and resilience while discussing how families are impacted by poverty, disparity, and trauma. Preparing for a Family Assessment This two-page resource offers brief guidance for those in the field and helpful reminders to keep in mind before working with families. Selecting An Assessment Tool This resource provides tips and ideas to consider when selecting an assessment tool specific to the needs of families in Indian Country. Considerations in Conducting a Family Assessment Â This resource provides an overview of principles for successfully engaging families in the assessment process, tips for preparing for an assessment, practice considerations in conducting an assessment, and guidance for selecting an assessment tool â all from a strengths-based approach. Resource Lists Culture is Prevention: We Are All Connected The Center for Tribes highlights what tribal communities have long known and practiced â that culture is prevention and that Native youth are strengthened when cultural connections are nurtured. The 15+ resources highlighted within this document expand on the concept of culture as prevention, provide examples from tribal communities, and offer suggestions from the field for how caseworkers can be mindful of incorporating the culture of the children and families they serve into practice. Levels of Prevention of Child Abuse and Neglect: Strategies and Resources for Tribal Communities Prevention services can range from Active Efforts to Customary Adoption. Weaving cultural stories and practices into any decision-making child welfare practice is prevention. This document describes the three main types of prevention and provides resources aligned with each so tribal child welfare programs can better identify where the services they are already providing fit along the continuum. Safety and Risk Assessment Tools in Tribal Child Welfare Tribal programs often consider adapting existing safety and risk tools or creating new tools to meet their specific needs as widely used tools may give little consideration to cultural differences in child-rearing, offering an incomplete picture of strengths and challenges. For programs interested in exploring that process, these resources can help. The John H. Chafee Foster Care Program for Successful Transition to ADULTHOOD Â Learn more about the John H. Chafee Foster Care Program; the funds are highly flexible and can be used to meet the immediate needs of young people currently or formerly in foster care to achieve self-sufficiency, including supplemental support for housing, food, and education and vocation support. Supporting Native Youth into Adulthood Â This resource list contains targeted resources to help child welfare professionals support the health, well-being, and cultural connectivity of Native youth while they journey into adulthood. Engaging and Supporting Native Fathers Â This one-page resource list identifies targeted resources for Tribal Child Welfare Agencies focused on engaging and supporting fathers.Â Customary Adoption In Indian Country, customary adoption is a traditional alternative to standard adoption practice and a more appropriate permanency placement for Native children. Customary adoption allows children to be adopted without requiring termination of parental rights. This practice exercises tribal sovereignty and helps to maintain family connections. Engaging and Supporting Native Grandfamilies This resource list compiles targeted resources from the field related to supports for Native grandfamilies. Two-Spirit and Native LGBTQIA+ Community Walking in Two Worlds: Understanding the Two-Spirit/Native LGBTQ Community Listen to this webinar where the historical roles and identities of Two-Spirit/Native LGBTQ people were discussed, how historical/intergenerational trauma has impacted this community, and the efforts to bring back balance, beauty, and acceptance.Â Working with Two-Spirit and Native LGBTQ Youth This resource list shares information designed to raise awareness and encourage tribal child welfare professionals to think through how they can better support Two-Spirit and/or Native LGBTQ children and youth. Supporting Two-Spirit and Native LGBTQ Youth Â This webinar offeredÂ education on Native LGBTQ and Two-Spirit identities and exploredÂ answers to the questions: How can tribal communities welcome their Two-Spirit relatives back into their circles? What can child welfare agencies do to create a safe and welcoming environment? How can those who work with youth protect and support the Two-Spirit/Native LGBTQ individuals in their care? The Children's Bureau, within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, funds the Capacity Building Center for Tribes. The contents of this website and the resources herein do not necessarily reflect the views or policies of the Children's Bureau.Â
## [Supporting Two Spirit/Native LGBTQ+ Youth WEBINAR](https://tribalinformationexchange.org/index.php/2019/06/19/supporting-two-spirit-native-lgbtq-youth/)


> How can tribal communities welcome their Two-Spirit relatives back into their circles? What can child welfare agencies do to create a safe and welcoming environment? How can those who work with youth protect and support the Two-Spirit/Native LGBTQ individuals in their care? This first video in a two-part recorded webinar series explores these questions and more. Resource Link: View Supporting Two Spirit/Native LGBTQ+ Youth Date: August, 2018
## [Walking in Two Worlds: Supporting the Two Spirit and Native LGBTQ Community](https://tribalinformationexchange.org/index.php/2018/04/09/walking-in-two-worlds-supporting-the-two-spirit-and-native-lgbtq-community/)


> What it means to be Two-Spirit, various definitions, tips on how to be a good ally, and potential challenges and barriers that may be experienced by those who identify as Two-Spirit or Native LGBTQ are included within this educational guide. (Please seek printing permission from The Minnesota Indian Womenâs Sexual Assault Coalition.) Date: N/D
## [Walking in Two Worlds: Understanding the Two Spirit Native LGBTQ Community](https://tribalinformationexchange.org/index.php/2018/06/28/walking-in-two-worlds-understanding-the-two-spirit-native-lgbtq-community/)


> This webinar, the first in a two-part series, discusses the historical roles and identities of Two-Spirit/Native LGBTQ people, how historical/intergenerational trauma has impacted this community, and the efforts to bring back balance, beauty, and acceptance.
## [Working with Two-Spirit and Native LGBTQ Youth](https://tribalinformationexchange.org/index.php/2018/04/03/working-with-two-spirit-and-native-lgbtq-youth/)


> A compilation of resources designed to raise awareness and encourage tribal child welfare professionals to think through how they can better support Two-Spirit and/or Native LGBTQ children and youth. Resource Link: Working with Two-Spirit and Native LGBTQ Youth
## [You searched for - Page 31 of 58 - Tribal Information Exchange](https://tribalinformationexchange.org/index.php/page/31/?category_name=resource-library&s&utm_medium=email&utm_source=spotlightonmar23)


> This tip sheet from the NRC4Tribes and Tribal Star offers support for Native children and youth who may be Two-Spirit and/or LGBTQ to help them feel connected to resources and communities. Lenny Hayes and Sandy White Hawk developed this presentation for a workshop at the 2017 NICWA conference. The Indian Child Welfare Act (ICWA) of 1978 is one of the key components to protecting the rights and culture of American Indian and Alaska Native (AI/AN) children and families. Unfortunately, not all child welfare caseworkers are aware of how to apply ICWA or the... Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and questioning/queer (LGBTQ) youth and their families live in all regions of the state, yet are often invisible to communities and institutions, including the child welfare system. LGBTQ youth and their families have strengths and... The Alaska Resilience Initiative promotes healthy communities and works to end child maltreatment. Leaders of this initiative hosted a 2016 gathering to ensure Alaska Native voices were heard. Participants provided recommendations on how to make existing... From the National Indigenous Womenâs Resource Center, this webinar shares information on ACEs and highlights evidence based and promising practices for working with children exposed to violence. Traditional and community-based efforts to address the problem are... This academic article focuses on the adverse childhood experiences and outcomes among American Indians and Alaska Natives. The researchers found that American Indian and Alaska Native children are significantly more likely to have adverse childhood... This 2017 study examines the relationship between mothersâ ACEs and developmental risks for their own children. Finding a significant association, the need to address intergenerational trauma is highlighted. Presented by Dolores Subia BigFoot, this 2013 webinar is part of a series on childhood trauma in Indian Country. This webinar presented findings from the Kaiser Permanente Study and adverse childhood experiences with a focus on American Indian and Alaska Native...