



# [The USAP Portal: Science and Support in Antarctica - Welcome to the United States Antarctic Program Portal](usap.gov): ~1 pages censored since 1/20/25

## [The USAP Portal: Science and Support in Antarctica](https://www.usap.gov/news/4754/)


> For USAP Participants | For The Public | For Researchers and Educators Contact Us U.S. National Science FoundationOffice of Polar Programs Geosciences Directorate 2415 Eisenhower Avenue, Suite W7100 Alexandria, VA 22314 Sign up for the NSF Office of Polar Programs newsletter and events. Feedback Form | U.S. Antarctic Stations Show Their Pride Polar Pride Day festivities occur across the frozen continent Posted December 26, 2023 Last month, participants in the U.S. Antarctic Program (USAP) celebrated the LGBTQ+ community in the fourth annual Polar Pride Day. Observed every year on November 18, it is a day to recognize the contributions these individuals make every day in supporting and conducting important scientific research at the top and bottom of the world. More than 50 countries participate in the annual Polar Pride celebrations, which are held on the same day as LGBTQ+ STEM Day. Together, the two shine a spotlight on the commitment within the scientific community to support and enhance diversity and inclusivity in polar research. Polar Pride Day isn’t just a celebration of the LGBTQ+ community and its contributions to science. It aims to foster a broader understanding of the diversity that exists among polar researchers and send a message of inclusiveness, acceptance and respect to everyone within the research community and all those who hope to enter it one day. This year, USAP stations celebrated with social gatherings, Pride flag displays, rainbow-themed clothing and desserts, and showings of LGBTQ+ movies. |