



# [usda.gov](usda.gov): ~5 pages censored since 1/20/25

## [USDA AgLearn](aglearn.usda.gov): ~5 pages censored since 1/20/25

### [June is LGBTQI+ Pride Month 2024](https://aglearn.usda.gov/mod/forum/discuss.php?d=311)


> In honor of this yearâs LGBTQI+ Pride Month, Team AgLearn is providing information and resources below to encourage engagement with this important annual event. Background The efforts to create a LGBTQI+ Pride march began in the United States on June 28, 1970, during the one-year anniversary of the Stonewall Uprisings External Link. It evolved into what is now a month-long celebration of the successes and numerous contributions of LGBTQI+ Americans to our society. President Bill Clinton became the first U.S. president to declare June as âGay and Lesbianâ Pride Month by issuing Proclamation 7203 External Link on June 11, 1999. Today, celebrations include pride parades, picnics, parties, workshops, symposia, and concerts, and LGBTQI+ Pride Month events attract millions of participants around the world. Memorials are held during this month for those members of the community who have been lost to hate crimes or HIV/AIDS. The purpose of the commemorative month is to recognize the impact that LGBTQI+ individuals have had on history locally, nationally, and internationally. The USDA 2024 Departmental LGBTQI+ Pride Month theme, âCultivating Resilience; Harvesting Hopeâ recognizes the contributions of LGBTQI+ Americans to our community, and more specifically, to agriculture. More Information about Pride Month External Link Presidential Proclamation and Executive Actions 2024 Presidential Proclamation â Coming soon! - Executive Order on Preventing and Combating Discrimination on the Basis of Gender Identity or Sexual Orientation External Link - Events FPAC FY 2024 LGBTQI+ Pride Awareness Month Events Description: In celebration of LGBTQI+ Pride Month, the FPAC Civil Rights and Equal Employment Opportunity Division (CREEOD) will be hosting a variety of events: Event 1: Queer Through the Years - Pride Month Observance Jeopardy Trivia Experience - June 12th at 1:00pm â 2:30pm EDT - Event 2: Queer History: Scientist Edition - Tuesday, June 11th at 1:00pm - 2:00pm EDT - Event 3: Queer Thriving: A workshop centered on queer farmer priorities and success - Tuesday, June 25th at 1:00pm - 2:30pm EDT - Learn more at: FPAC FY 2024 LGBTQI+ Pride Awareness Month events Cultivating Resilience, Harvesting Hope Date: Wednesday, June 5, 2024 Time: 1:00 PM EST Description: In celebration of Pride Month, the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, the Office of the Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer External Link, and Equality USDA External Link will host an event. This is an opportunity to recognize the invaluable role that LGBTQI+ Americans have played in shaping our workforce and communities. The event will commence on the Whitten Patio at 1:00 pm EST. The event will also be available virtually on Zoom. Register to join by Zoom: Cultivating Resilience, Harvesting Hope event External Link AgLearn Resources Featured Courses Course â Succeeding as an LGBT Professional External Link - Course â Understanding and Supporting LGBTQ+ Employees External Link - Course â Connecting with LGBTQ+ Customers Year Round External Link - Course â Becoming an Ally to All External Link - Course â Inclusive Mindset for Committed Allies External Link - Course â Mindfulness, Diversity, and the Quest for Inclusion External Link - Course â Driving Inclusion with Empathy External Link - Course â Communicating about Culturally Sensitive Issues External Link - Course â Skills for Inclusive Conversations External Link - Course â Strategies to Foster Inclusive Language at Work External Link - Learning Channel: DEI in the Workplace External Link - Learning Channel: Leading DEI In The Workplace External Link - eBooks & Study Guides eBook: A Brief History of Equality External Link - eBook: Pride Leadership: Strategies for LGBTQ+ Leaders to be the King or Queen of Their Jungle External Link - eBook: MIT Sloan Management Review Article on Building Effective Corporate Engagement on LGBTQ Rights External Link - eBook: GaYme Changer: How the LGBT+ Community and Their Allies are Changing the Global Economy External Link - Book Summary: The Queer Advantage: Conversations with LGBTQ+ Leaders on the Power of Identity External Link - Book Summary: Gender Ambiguity in the Workplace: Transgender and Gender-Diverse Discrimination External Link - Study Guide: Transgender Employees: Creating an Inclusive Work Community, Self-Study Guide External Link -
### [June is Pride Month 2023](https://aglearn.usda.gov/mod/forum/discuss.php?d=243)


> View the 2024 LGBTQI+ Pride Month site announcement. Last Updated: June 6, 2023 In honor of this year’s LGBTQ+ Pride Month, Team AgLearn is providing information and resources below to encourage engagement with this important annual event. The information below is a portion of content quoted from President Biden's Proclamation on Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Intersex Pride Month, 2023 External Link "During Pride Month, we honor a movement that has grown stronger, more vibrant, and more inclusive with every passing year. Pride is a celebration of generations of LGBTQI+ people, who have fought bravely to live openly and authentically. And it is a reminder that we still have generational work to do to ensure that everyone enjoys the full promise of equity, dignity, protection, and freedom." Background Pride Month is currently celebrated each year in the month of June to honor the 1969 Stonewall Uprising in Manhattan. The Stonewall Uprising was a tipping point for the Gay Liberation Movement in the United States. In the United States the last Sunday in June was initially celebrated as “Gay Pride Day,” but the actual day was flexible. In major cities across the nation the ‘day’ soon grew to encompass a month-long series of events. Today, celebrations include pride parades, picnics, parties, workshops, symposia and concerts, and LGBTQ Pride Month events attract millions of participants around the world. Memorials are held during this month for those members of the community who have been lost to hate crimes or HIV/AIDS. The purpose of the commemorative month is to recognize the impact that lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender individuals have had on history locally, nationally, and internationally. More Information about Pride Month External Link Presidential Executive Action - President Biden's Proclamation on Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Intersex Pride Month, 2023 External Link - Executive Order on Preventing and Combating Discrimination on the Basis of Gender Identity or Sexual Orientation External Link Events LGBTQI+ Urban Farmer Roundtable No registration required. When: June 8, 2023, 2:00pm-4:00pm Join the LGBTQI+ Urban Farmer Roundtable (zoom event) External Link USDA LGBTQI+ Pride Month Observance This year, the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights (OASCR) and the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) are coming together to host the Departmental LGBTQI+ Pride Month Observance. This program will feature Dr. Katherine Dentzman (she/her) and Dr. Jaclyn "Jac" Wypler (they/she) as the keynote speakers. Dr. Dentzman and Dr. Wypler will be discussing the most recent data and research around LGBTQI+ farmers, and how queer farmers are literally changing the land they live and work on. Hear how USDA is changing the landscape of the lives of our LGBTQI+ employees and customers through diversity and inclusion initiatives. When: June 29, 2023, 1:00pm - 2:30pm EST Register for the USDA LGBTQI+ Pride Month Observance Webinar External Link LGBTQI+ PRIDE Month Observance - Equality USDA Presents Pronouns in the Workplace Equality USDA is presenting a training session on pronouns in the workplace covering: why pronouns are part of an inclusive workplace culture, terms and definitions, best practices, USDA email signature block policy, and frequently asked questions. When: June 22, 2023, 2:00pm-3:00pm EST Register for the Pronouns in the Workplace Webinar (zoom event) AgLearn Resources From LinkedIn Learning - Course – Out and Proud: Approaching LGBT Issues in the Workplace External Link - Course – Succeeding as an LGBT Professional External Link - Course – Understanding and Supporting LGBTQ+ Employees External Link - Course – Connecting with LGBTQ+ Customers Year Round External Link - Course – Becoming an Ally to All External Link - Course – Inclusive Mindset for Committed Allies External Link - Course – Mindfulness, Diversity, and the Quest for Inclusion External Link - Course – Driving Inclusion with Empathy External Link - Course – Communicating about Culturally Sensitive Issues External Link - Course – Skills for Inclusive Conversations External Link - Course – Strategies to Foster Inclusive Language at Work External Link From Skillsoft-Percipio - Percipio Book: Pride Leadership: Strategies for LGBTQ+ Leaders to be the King or Queen of Their Jungle External Link - Percipio Book: MIT Sloan Management Review Article on Building Effective Corporate Engagement on LGBTQ Rights External Link - Percipio Book: GaYme Changer: How the LGBT+ Community and Their Allies are Changing the Global Economy External Link - Percipio Book Summary: The Queer Advantage: Conversations with LGBTQ+ Leaders on the Power of Identity External Link - Percipio Book Summary: Gender Ambiguity in the Workplace: Transgender and Gender-Diverse Discrimination External Link - Study Guide: Transgender Employees: Creating an Inclusive Work Community, Self-Study Guide External Link
### [Site Announcements](https://aglearn.usda.gov/mod/forum/discuss.php?d=159)


> In honor of this year’s LGBTQ+ Pride Month, Team AgLearn is providing information and resources below to encourage engagement with this important annual event. The information below is a portion of content quoted from Secretary Tom Vilsack’s address to all USDA employees on May 31, 2022. “At USDA we strive to build a workplace that welcomes and embraces all employees and encourages them to be their whole, authentic selves. We do this with a deep commitment to honoring our diverse experiences, perspectives, and contributions as we advance the goals of our nation. USDA is committed to LGBTQI+ equality and fostering a workplace environment in which everyone is included, respected, and empowered to fulfill their potential.” Background Information about Pride Month External Link: “Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer (LGBTQ) Pride Month is currently celebrated each year in the month of June to honor the 1969 Stonewall Uprising in Manhattan. The Stonewall Uprising was a tipping point for the Gay Liberation Movement in the United States. In the United States the last Sunday in June was initially celebrated as ‘Gay Pride Day,’ but the actual day was flexible. In major cities across the nation the ‘day’ soon grew to encompass a month-long series of events. Today, celebrations include pride parades, picnics, parties, workshops, symposia and concerts, and LGBTQ Pride Month events attract millions of participants around the world. Memorials are held during this month for those members of the community who have been lost to hate crimes or HIV/AIDS. The purpose of the commemorative month is to recognize the impact that lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender individuals have had on history locally, nationally, and internationally.” Presidential Proclamation and Executive Actions June 2022 Presidential Proclamation [TBD] - Executive Order on Preventing and Combating Discrimination on the Basis of Gender Identity or Sexual Orientation External Link - AgLearn Resources From LinkedIn Learning (Courses) Out and Proud: Approaching LGBT Issues in the Workplace External Link - Succeeding as an LGBT Professional External Link - Understanding and Supporting LGBTQ+ Employees External Link - Connecting with LGBTQ+ Customers Year Round External Link - Becoming an Ally to All External Link - Inclusive Mindset for Committed Allies External Link - Mindfulness, Diversity, and the Quest for Inclusion External Link - Driving Inclusion with Empathy External Link - Communicating about Culturally Sensitive Issues External Link - Skills for Inclusive Conversations External Link - Strategies to Foster Inclusive Language at Work External Link - From Skillsoft-Percipio Percipio Book: Pride Leadership: Strategies for LGBTQ+ Leaders to be the King or Queen of Their Jungle External Link - Percipio Book: MIT Sloan Management Review Article on Building Effective Corporate Engagement on LGBTQ Rights External Link - Percipio Book: GaYme Changer: How the LGBT+ Community and Their Allies are Changing the Global Economy External Link - Percipio Book Summary: The Queer Advantage: Conversations with LGBTQ+ Leaders on the Power of Identity External Link - Percipio Book Summary: Gender Ambiguity in the Workplace: Transgender and Gender-Diverse Discrimination External Link - Study Guide: Transgender Employees: Creating an Inclusive Work Community, Self-Study Guide External Link - Additional Information and Resources Employee Resource from USDA: Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ+) Program External Link - Article from USDA: Pride Month and USDA’s Commitment to Inclusion External Link - Information from the Library of Congress about the History of LGBTQ+ Pride Month External Link - Information and Federal Resources for Pride Month External Link - USDA Pride Month Events Raising the Pride Flag at the Whitten Building On June 1st, from 8:20 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. EST, put on your Pride gear or most colorful outfit, and plan to join Secretary Vilsack and Deputy Secretary Bronaugh to kick off LGBTQI+ Pride Month by raising the Pride Flag at the Whitten Building. Secretary Vilsack and Deputy Secretary Bronaugh will open activities with remarks highlighting actions USDA is taking to promote inclusion for LGBTQI+ employees to further our efforts toward Making USDA a Best Place to Work and improving fair access to our programs and services.USDA Pride Observance On June 8th at 1 p.m., we will celebrate Pride month with our USDA Pride Observance hosted by OASCR, FPAC, NIFA, and Equality USDA. The program will feature a keynote and guest speakers, remarks from myself, and topics such as Hunger in the Trans Gender Community, featuring The Okra Project, The Williams Institute, and the Giver Network an ERG from the Forest Service. For information on USDA Pride Observance, watch OneUSDA intranet External Link and your Agency internal communications for participation details.Freeheld Film Screening On June 16, 2022, there will be a LGBTQI+ film screening of "Freeheld." Freeheld is a 2015 American drama film directed by Peter Sollett and written by Ron Nyswaner. It is based on the 2007 documentary short film of the same name about police officer Laurel Hester's fight against the Ocean County, New Jersey Board of Chosen Freeholders to allow her pension benefits to be transferred to her domestic partner after being diagnosed with terminal cancer (Register for the Freeheld Film Screening via Swank Virtual Portal External Link).LGBTQI+ Farmer’s Roundtable Discussion On June 21, 2022, at 1 p.m. EST, USDA in conjunction with Equality USDA, will host a LGBTQI+ Farmer’s roundtable discussion External Link. This virtual event will feature four LGBTQI+ farmers in conversation, speaking about their operation and experience, followed by a facilitated conversation amongst the panelists, with time for audience questions. Urban agriculture and its importance to LGBTQI+ communities will be explored. See the attached flyer with information on how to join.
## [www.usda.gov](www.usda.gov): ~5 pages censored since 1/20/25

### [Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ+) Program](https://www.usda.gov/oascr/special-emphasis-programs/lgbtq)


> The Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ+) Program promotes the employment, advancement and retention of persons with differing sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in the USDA workforce. The LGBTQ+ Program serves as a resource to assist managers in identifying and resolving employment, retention, and work environment issues affecting LGBTQ+ employees at USDA. LGBTQ Pride Month Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ+) Pride Month is currently celebrated each year in the month of June to honor the 1969 Stonewall Uprising in Manhattan. The Stonewall Uprising was a tipping point for the Gay Liberation Movement in the United States. In the United States the last Sunday in June was initially celebrated as “Gay Pride Day,” but the actual day was flexible. In major cities across the nation the “day” soon grew to encompass a month-long series of events. Today, celebrations include pride parades, picnics, parties, workshops, symposia and concerts, and LGBTQ+ Pride Month events attract millions of participants around the world. Memorials are held during this month for those members of the community who have been lost to hate crimes or HIV/AIDS. The purpose of the commemorative month is to recognize the impact that lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer individuals have had on history locally, nationally, and internationally. In 1994, a coalition of education-based organizations in the United States designated October as LGBT History Month. In 1995, a resolution passed by the General Assembly of the National Education Association included LGBT History Month within a list of commemorative months. National Coming Out Day (October 11), as well as the first “March on Washington” in 1979, are commemorated in the community during LGBT History Month. 2021 Presidential Proclamation on Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer Pride Month The uprising at the Stonewall Inn in June 1969, sparked a liberation movement — a call to action that continues to inspire us to live up to our Nation’s promise of equality, liberty, and justice for all. Pride is a time to recall the trials the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ+) community has endured and to rejoice in the triumphs of trailblazing individuals who have bravely fought — and continue to fight — for full equality. Pride is both a jubilant communal celebration of visibility and a personal celebration of self-worth and dignity. This Pride Month, we recognize the valuable contributions of LGBTQ+ individuals across America, and we reaffirm our commitment to standing in solidarity with LGBTQ+ Americans in their ongoing struggle against discrimination and injustice. Resources Addressing Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity Discrimination in Federal Civilian Employment - EEOC's Fact Sheet: Recent EEOC Litigation Regarding Title VII & LGBT-Related Discrimination - What You Should Know About EEOC and the Enforcement Protections for LGBT Workers - Examples of Court Decisions Supporting Coverage of LGBT-Related Discrimination Under Title VII -
## [Natural Resources Conservation Service](www.nrcs.usda.gov): ~5 pages censored since 1/20/25

### [New Hampshire Civil Rights Committee](https://www.nrcs.usda.gov/NewHampshire/Civil-Rights)


> The NRCS in N.H. is committed to conservation program delivery to all Americans that call the Granite State 'home.' To ensure that we are meeting the needs of our customers we have a Civil Rights Action Committee that advises state leadership on issues of equality and inclusion. NH NRCS Civil Rights and Equal Employment Opportunity NRCS, N.H. is committed to the civil rights of our customers and employees. We deliver services equitably and strive for workforce diversity. Our programs are available to all customers, form all backgrounds, and we have established a committee of employees that represent the needs of underserved communities across New Hampshire. These Special Emphasis Program Managers (SEPMs) each focus on a particular community a work to ensure they understand that our programs are open to them. Meet the Team: Committee Chair: Tabitha Edwards As the Chair of the NRCS, N.H. Civil Rights Advisory Committee, Tabitha provides leadership, for the committee - ensuring all efforts are adequately in place to meet the needs of the diverse citizens and employees of the Granite State. Committee Advisor: Devon Cunningham As the Assistant State Conservationist, Management and Strategy, for NRCS, N.H. Devon is permanent advisor to the Civil Rights Advisory Committee providing guidance and continuity to the committee when individual SEPM terms expire. NRCS, N.H. SEPMs Veteran SEPM, Maverick Hill Jeremy Fowler is the SEPM for military Veterans Jeremy is the Public Affairs Specialist for NRCS, N.H. and is a veteran of the Iraq War. Jeremy helps represent the interests of our veteran agricultural producers and seeks to recruit more veterans into NRCS, N.H. American Indian/Native Alaskan SEPM, Jim Fortin Tim Tucker is the SEPM for military Veterans Tim is a Soil Conservationist for NRCS, N.H. in the Epping Field Office. Tim helps represent the interests of our American Indian and Native Alaskan producers and seeks to recruit them to work for NRCS, N.H. Black SEPM, Amir McKinstry Jeffrey 'Jeff' Painter is the SEPM for Black Americans Jeff is the State Archaeologist for NRCS, N.H. Jeff helps represent the interests of our Black producers and seeks to recruit them to work for NRCS, N.H. Disabled Americans SEPM, Brendan Mulhall Kimberly 'Kim' Zaleski is the SEPM for Disabled Americans Kim is the Executive Assistant to the State Conservationist for NRCS, N.H. Kim helps represent the interests of our disabled producers and seeks to recruit them to work for NRCS, N.H. LGBTQ+ SEPM, Julia Sylvies Matthew 'Matt' Smetana is the SEPM for LGBTQ+ Americans Matt is a Soil Conservationist for NRCS, N.H. in the Walpole Field Office. Matt helps represent the interests of our LGBTQ+ producers and seeks to recruit them to work for NRCS, N.H. Asian American, Pacific Islander SEPM, Cora Rueda Nels Liljedahl is the SEPM for Asian American and Pacific Islander Americans Nels is the State Outreach Coordinator for NRCS, N.H. Nels helps represent the interests of our Asian American and Pacific Island producers and seeks to recruit them to work for NRCS, N.H. Woman's SEPM, Ashley Newell Ashely Newell is the SEPM for Women Ashley is a Soil Conservationist for NRCS, N.H. in the Lancaster Field Office. Ashley helps represent the interests of our Women producers and seeks to recruit them to work for NRCS, N.H. Hispanic SEPM, Jack Doherty Nicholas 'Nick' Jeffries is the SEPM for Hispanic Americans Jeff Painter is the State Archaeologist for NRCS, N.H. He helps represent the interests of our Black producers and seeks to recruit them to work for NRCS, N.H. Nick is an Civil Engineer for NRCS, N.H. in the Concord Field Office. Nick helps represent the interests of our Hispanic producers and seeks to recruit them to work for NRCS, N.H. NRCS, N.H. SEPMs Veteran SEPM, Maverick Hill Jeremy Fowler is the SEPM for military Veterans Jeremy is the Public Affairs Specialist for NRCS, N.H. and is a veteran of the Iraq War. Jeremy helps represent the interests of our veteran agricultural producers and seeks to recruit more veterans into NRCS, N.H. American Indian/Native Alaskan SEPM, Jim Fortin Tim Tucker is the SEPM for military Veterans Tim is a Soil Conservationist for NRCS, N.H. in the Epping Field Office. Tim helps represent the interests of our American Indian and Native Alaskan producers and seeks to recruit them to work for NRCS, N.H. Black SEPM, Amir McKinstry Jeffrey 'Jeff' Painter is the SEPM for Black Americans Jeff is the State Archaeologist for NRCS, N.H. Jeff helps represent the interests of our Black producers and seeks to recruit them to work for NRCS, N.H. Disabled Americans SEPM, Brendan Mulhall Kimberly 'Kim' Zaleski is the SEPM for Disabled Americans Kim is the Executive Assistant to the State Conservationist for NRCS, N.H. Kim helps represent the interests of our disabled producers and seeks to recruit them to work for NRCS, N.H. LGBTQ+ SEPM, Julia Sylvies Matthew 'Matt' Smetana is the SEPM for LGBTQ+ Americans Matt is a Soil Conservationist for NRCS, N.H. in the Walpole Field Office. Matt helps represent the interests of our LGBTQ+ producers and seeks to recruit them to work for NRCS, N.H. Asian American, Pacific Islander SEPM, Cora Rueda Nels Liljedahl is the SEPM for Asian American and Pacific Islander Americans Nels is the State Outreach Coordinator for NRCS, N.H. Nels helps represent the interests of our Asian American and Pacific Island producers and seeks to recruit them to work for NRCS, N.H. Woman's SEPM, Ashley Newell Ashely Newell is the SEPM for Women Ashley is a Soil Conservationist for NRCS, N.H. in the Lancaster Field Office. Ashley helps represent the interests of our Women producers and seeks to recruit them to work for NRCS, N.H. Hispanic SEPM, Jack Doherty Nicholas 'Nick' Jeffries is the SEPM for Hispanic Americans Jeff Painter is the State Archaeologist for NRCS, N.H. He helps represent the interests of our Black producers and seeks to recruit them to work for NRCS, N.H. Nick is an Civil Engineer for NRCS, N.H. in the Concord Field Office. Nick helps represent the interests of our Hispanic producers and seeks to recruit them to work for NRCS, N.H. NRCS, N.H. SEPMs Veteran SEPM, Maverick Hill Maverick Hill is the SEPM for military Veterans Maverick is the Financial Resources Specialist for NRCS, N.H. and is a veteran of the Iraq War. Maverick helps represent the interests of our veteran agricultural producers and seeks to recruit more veterans into NRCS, N.H. American Indian/Native Alaskan SEPM, Jim Fortin Jim Fortin is the SEPM for American Indian & Native Alaskans Jim is a Natural Resources Conservationist for NRCS, N.H. Jim helps represent the interests of our American Indian and Native Alaskan producers and seeks to recruit them to work for NRCS, N.H. Black SEPM, Amir McKinstry Amir McKinstry is the SEPM for Black Americans Amir is a Soil Conservationist for NRCS, N.H. in the Milford Field Office. Amir helps represent the interests of our Black producers and seeks to recruit them to work for NRCS, N.H. Disabled Americans SEPM, Brendan Mulhall Brendan Mulhall is the SEPM for Disabled Americans Brendan is a Resource Conservaitonist for NRCS in N.H. Brendan helps represent the interests of our disabled producers and seeks to recruit them to work for NRCS, N.H. LGBTQ+ SEPM, Julia Sylvies Julia Sylvies is the SEPM for LGBTQ+ Americans Julia is a Conservation Engineer for NRCS, N.H. in the Orford Field Office. Julia helps represent the interests of our LGBTQ+ producers and seeks to recruit them to work for NRCS, N.H. Asian American, Pacific Islander SEPM, Cora Rueda Cora Rueda is the SEPM for Asian American and Pacific Islander Americans Cora is a Soil Conservationist for NRCS in N.H. Cora helps represent the interests of our Asian American and Pacific Island producers and seeks to recruit them to work for NRCS, N.H. Woman's SEPM, Ashley Newell Ashely Newell is the SEPM for Women Ashley is a Soil Conservationist for NRCS, N.H. in the Lancaster Field Office. Ashley helps represent the interests of our Women producers and seeks to recruit them to work for NRCS, N.H. Hispanic SEPM, Jack Doherty Jack Doherty is the SEPM for Hispanic Americans Jack is a Conservation Engineer for NRCS, N.H. in the Epping Field Office. Jeff helps represent the interests of our Hispanic producers and seeks to recruit them to work for NRCS, N.H.