



# [VA.gov Veterans Affairs](va.gov): ~24 pages censored since 1/20/25

## [Health Systems Research](www.hsrd.research.va.gov): ~24 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://www.hsrd.research.va.gov/for_researchers/cyber_seminars/archives/video_archive.cfm?SessionID=6445


Applying Qualitative Methodology to Explore Access and Health Care Needs of LGBTQ+ Veteran... [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.hsrd.research.va.gov/for_researchers/cyber_seminars/archives/video_archive.cfm?SessionID=6445)

> by B. Jenny Kiratli, PhD ; Andrea Nevedal, PhD Seminar date: 11/8/2023 Description: This presentation will highlight work in progress by VA researchers to explore access, attitudes and health-related experiences of LGBTQ+ Veterans who live with spinal cord injury. The work highlighted in this presentation will include interviews with both Veterans and SCI specialty providers and aims to identify adverse experiences, barriers and gaps as well as positive responses that may guide future development of needed education/training and resources. DOWNLOAD: PDF handout | Audio only (mp3) | transcript not yet available
### https://www.hsrd.research.va.gov/for_researchers/awards/default.cfm?award=8897


Awards & Honors [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.hsrd.research.va.gov/for_researchers/awards/default.cfm?award=8897)

> Congratulations to John R. Blosnich, Taylor L. Boyer, Michelle Hilgeman, and Sarah Wilson for winning VA’s LGBTQ+ Health Program research paper awards! Taylor L. Boyer, MPH (left) and John R. Blosnich, PhD, MPH (right) Taylor L. Boyer, MPH, a health science specialist, and John R. Blosnich, PhD, MPH, an investigator, are with HSR’s Center for Health Equity Research and Promotion (CHERP). They received the 2024 Monica Helms and Angela B. Sheedy TGD Research Paper of the Year Award for “Patient Experiences and Provider Perspectives on Accessing Gender-Affirming Surgical Services in the Veterans Health Administration,” which explores transgender and gender diverse (TGD) patients’ and VA providers’ perspectives on Veterans’ access to gender-affirming surgery and other gender-affirming medical interventions not offered at VA. Sarah Wilson, PhD Sarah Wilson, PhD, an investigator with HSR’s Durham Center of Innovation to Accelerate Discovery and Practice Transformation (ADAPT), and Michelle Hilgeman, PhD, an HSR investigator at the Tuscaloosa VA Medical Center, received the 2024 Leonard Matlovich LGBQ+ Research Paper of the Year Award for “Rolling out PRIDE in All Who Served: Barriers and Facilitators for Sites Implementing an LGBTQ+ Health Education Group for Military Veterans,” which clarifies determinants of implementation and sustainment of VA’s PRIDE program. The PRIDE program was developed to improve health equity and access to care for LGBTQ+ Veterans and has led to improved outcomes among participating Veterans. The paper also won ADAPT’s COIN Paper of the Year Award. Michelle Hilgeman, PhD Both of the award-winning papers were published in the Journal of General Internal Medicine. LGBTQ+ Veterans can experience increased risk for suicide and other healthcare inequities, due in part to discrimination and barriers to care access. The Monica Helms and Angela B. Sheedy TGD Research Paper of the Year Award is named for Monica Helms, a U.S. Navy Veteran and transgender activist credited with creating the first transgender flag, and Army reservist Veteran Angela B. Sheedy, who joined Helms to create the Transgender American Veterans Association (TAVA). The Leonard Matlovich LGBQ+ Research Paper of the Year Award was named after the first gay U.S. military service member to purposely out himself to fight the ban on LGBTQ+ individuals serving in the military. This is the inaugural year for the awards.
### https://www.hsrd.research.va.gov/research/abstracts.cfm?Project_ID=2141709775


IIR 22-199 – HSR Study [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.hsrd.research.va.gov/research/abstracts.cfm?Project_ID=2141709775)

> IIR 22-199 Equity-Focused Implementation of LGBTQ-Affirmative Cognitive Behavioral Therapy: A Hybrid Implementation-Effectiveness Trial Sarah M. Wilson, PhD Durham VA Medical Center, Durham, NC Durham, NC Funding Period: August 2024 - July 2028 | Abstract Background: Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, non-binary, queer/questioning, and other sexual/gender minority (LGBTQ+) Veterans have disproportionate risk for poor mental health outcomes and suicide. Despite advances in VHA LGBTQ-affirmative care, systemic discrimination and barriers to accessing affirmative mental health care continue to exacerbate mental health disparities. LGBTQ-Affirmative Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) is a unique intervention with a strong evidence base for improving mental health among LGBTQ+ individuals. This intervention is ready for implementation, but it has not yet been implemented widely in VHA. Additionally, despite models and frameworks focusing on the intersection of health equity and implementation science, there is a lack of empirical evidence testing the impact of equity-focused implementation strategies. Significance: Points of significance include: 1) High rates of suicide among LGBTQ+ Veterans and few evidence-based solutions for this population, 2) Focus on LGBTQ+ equity and collaboration/power-sharing, both of which are part of the VHA Strategic Plan, and 3) Strong partnerships with operations partners and Veteran-led community partners to enable quick action on study findings. Innovation & Impact: Points of innovation include: a) First known study to test implementation of an LGBTQ- affirmative mental health treatment within VA or the broader community, b) Unique emphasis on power-sharing and participatory methods to incorporate health equity into rigorous implementation science methodology, and c) First known clinical trial to leverage a validated natural language processing-based algorithm to identify an electronic, administrative cohort of LGBTQ+ Veterans to test effectiveness outcomes. Specific Aims: The objective of this project is to use a hybrid type III implementation-effectiveness trial design to test provider-level and Veteran-level outcomes associated with an Equity-Focused Implementation Package to increase adoption and sustainment of LGBTQ-Affirmative CBT. The study includes the following specific aims: 1) to refine an Equity-Focused Implementation Package for improving uptake of LGBTQ-Affirmative CBT; 2a) To conduct a multi-site cluster-randomized trial of 12 facilities comparing a Standard Implementation Package to an Equity-Focused Implementation Package; 2b) To qualitatively examine equity-related determinants of implementation across sites; and 3) To estimate the reach and effectiveness of the Equity- Focused Implementation Package among LGBTQ+ Veterans between implementation arms. Methodology: This cluster-randomized trial will include 12 facilities randomized 1-to-1 to receive either a Standard Implementation Package (train-the-trainer, access to self-guided training, free treatment manuals, and national consultation calls) or an Equity-Focused Implementation Package (Standard Implementation plus 6 equity-focused implementation strategies). The primary implementation outcome is adoption, as measured by the rate of psychotherapists delivering at least one session of LGBTQ-Affirmative CBT. Effectiveness outcomes include clinically significant change in depression (primary) and likelihood of self-injurious thoughts or behaviors (secondary). The study includes three key phases of implementation based on the EPIS Framework (Exploration, Preparation, Implementation, Sustainment): refining the Equity-Focused Implementation Package using implementation mapping methodology with adaptations to incorporate power- sharing and equity focus; implementing the intervention using two separate, randomized implementation conditions; and removing external implementation to observe sustainment of the intervention. Next Steps/Implementation: Dissemination and implementation activities will be carried out in partnership with the study Workgroup, operations partners, and Veteran-led community organizations, and will be directed within and outside of VHA. Additionally, the Equity-Focused Implementation Package will be considered as a promising practice for widespread VHA implementation. | External Links for this Project NIH Reporter Grant Number: I01HX003702-01A2Link: https://reporter.nih.gov/project-details/10862091 Dimensions for VA Dimensions for VA is a web-based tool available to VA staff that enables detailed searches of published research and research projects.Learn more about Dimensions for VA. VA staff not currently on the VA network can access Dimensions by registering for an account using their VA email address. Search Dimensions for this project | PUBLICATIONS: None at this time. DRA: Mental, Cognitive and Behavioral Disorders DRE: Treatment - Implementation, TRL - Applied/Translational Keywords: Behavioral Therapy, Disparities, Electronic Health Record MeSH Terms: None at this time. |
## [Center for Health Equity Research and Promotion](www.cherp.research.va.gov): ~24 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://www.cherp.research.va.gov/features/VAPHS_Researchers_Receive_Inaugural_LGBTQ_Award.asp


CHERP Researchers Receive Inaugural LGBTQ+ Award [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.cherp.research.va.gov/features/VAPHS_Researchers_Receive_Inaugural_LGBTQ_Award.asp)

> Attention A T users. To access the menus on this page please perform the following steps. 1. Please switch auto forms mode to off. 2. Hit enter to expand a main menu option (Health, Benefits, etc). 3. To enter and activate the submenu links, hit the down arrow. You will now be able to tab or arrow up or down through the submenu options to access/activate the submenu links. Locator Contact Search Contact Us VA » Health Care » Center for Health Equity Research and Promotion » CHERP Researchers Receive Inaugural LGBTQ+ Award Center for Health Equity Research and Promotion CHERP Researchers Receive Inaugural LGBTQ+ Award Thursday, April 18, 2024Dr. John Blosnich and Taylor Boyer receive new national award from VA's LGBTQ+ Health Program Office CHERP researchers, Dr. John Blosnich and Taylor Boyer, are among the first recipients of the new national Monica Helms and Angela B. Sheedy TGD Research Paper of the Year Award through VA's LGBTQ+ Health Program Office. The award was received for their paper, "Patient Experiences and Provider Perspectives on Accessing Gender-Affirming Surgical Services in the Veterans Health Administration." Additional details can be found in the profile: VAPHS Research Staff Receive Inaugural National LGBTQ+ Awards
## [VA.gov Veterans Affairs](www.va.gov): ~24 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://www.va.gov/centerforminorityveterans/index.asp


Center for Minority Veterans (CMV) [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.va.gov/centerforminorityveterans/index.asp)

> Center for Minority Veterans (CMV) VA Resources CMV Black History Month Program February 1, 2024 - 2023 Black History Month Program Webinar February 8, 2023 (Password: 3VmRfnh*) - 2023 Black History Month Program Webinar February 15, 2023 (Password: jWuBhM$3) - African American Employment Program - African American Organizations - - Other Resources - Black or African American Veteran Service Organization and Nongovernmental Organizations - Historically Black Universities and Colleges - VA Resources - Other Resources - Native American and Alaska Native Veteran Service Organization and Nongovernmental Organizations - Tribal Colleges and Universities - VA Resources - Other Resources - AANHPI Veteran Service Organization or Nongovernmental Organizations - Asian American and Pacific Islander Serving Institutions - VA Resources 2023 Hispanic Heritage Month message from the Secretary - 2023 Hispanic Heritage Month series webinar: Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute (Password: rUViF7Q$) - 2023 Hispanic Heritage Month series webinar: Hispanic Heritage Foundation (Password: pGEmdq?3) - 2023 Hispanic Heritage Month series webinar: The American Latino Veterans Association (Password: JuJTQ7Z?) - 2023 Hispanic Heritage Month series webinar: Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities (Password: Gpx3mXS?) - Hispanic Employment Program - Hispanic Organizations - Statistics - - Hispanic and Latine Veteran Service Organization and Nongovernmental Organizations - Hispanic Serving Institutions - A message from the Secretary for LGBTQ+ Veterans - VBA LGBT Service Members and Veterans - VHA LGBTQ+ Health Program - VA LGBTQ+ Health Program Patient Education, Resources, and Outreach Materials - CMV LGBTQ+ Veterans VA Life and PACT Act Webinar (Password: XdtbUv@5) - Transgender American Veterans Association - External Links Disclaimer This page may contain links to pages and/or documents outside the Department of Veterans Affairs Domain. These are annotated as shown below. We hope your visit was informative. U.S. Federal/Military Sites — You will leave the Department of Veterans Affairs web site by accessing links annotated with this graphic. External Links Disclaimer This page may contain links to pages and/or documents outside the Department of Veterans Affairs Domain. These are annotated as shown below. We hope your visit was informative. Non-Government Sites — You will leave the Department of Veterans Affairs web site by accessing links annotated with this graphic. VA does not endorse and is not responsible for the content of the linked web site.
### https://www.va.gov/centerforminorityveterans/


Center for Minority Veterans (CMV) [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.va.gov/centerforminorityveterans/)

> Center for Minority Veterans (CMV) VA Resources CMV Black History Month Program February 1, 2024 - 2023 Black History Month Program Webinar February 8, 2023 (Password: 3VmRfnh*) - 2023 Black History Month Program Webinar February 15, 2023 (Password: jWuBhM$3) - African American Employment Program - African American Organizations - - Other Resources - Black or African American Veteran Service Organization and Nongovernmental Organizations - Historically Black Universities and Colleges - VA Resources - Other Resources - Native American and Alaska Native Veteran Service Organization and Nongovernmental Organizations - Tribal Colleges and Universities - VA Resources - Other Resources - AANHPI Veteran Service Organization or Nongovernmental Organizations - Asian American and Pacific Islander Serving Institutions - VA Resources 2023 Hispanic Heritage Month message from the Secretary - 2023 Hispanic Heritage Month series webinar: Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute (Password: rUViF7Q$) - 2023 Hispanic Heritage Month series webinar: Hispanic Heritage Foundation (Password: pGEmdq?3) - 2023 Hispanic Heritage Month series webinar: The American Latino Veterans Association (Password: JuJTQ7Z?) - 2023 Hispanic Heritage Month series webinar: Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities (Password: Gpx3mXS?) - Hispanic Employment Program - Hispanic Organizations - Statistics - - Hispanic and Latine Veteran Service Organization and Nongovernmental Organizations - Hispanic Serving Institutions - A message from the Secretary for LGBTQ+ Veterans - VBA LGBT Service Members and Veterans - VHA LGBTQ+ Health Program - VA LGBTQ+ Health Program Patient Education, Resources, and Outreach Materials - CMV LGBTQ+ Veterans VA Life and PACT Act Webinar (Password: XdtbUv@5) - Transgender American Veterans Association - External Links Disclaimer This page may contain links to pages and/or documents outside the Department of Veterans Affairs Domain. These are annotated as shown below. We hope your visit was informative. U.S. Federal/Military Sites — You will leave the Department of Veterans Affairs web site by accessing links annotated with this graphic. External Links Disclaimer This page may contain links to pages and/or documents outside the Department of Veterans Affairs Domain. These are annotated as shown below. We hope your visit was informative. Non-Government Sites — You will leave the Department of Veterans Affairs web site by accessing links annotated with this graphic. VA does not endorse and is not responsible for the content of the linked web site.
### https://www.va.gov/miami-health-care/health-services/lgbtq-veteran-care/


LGBTQ+ Veteran care [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.va.gov/miami-health-care/health-services/lgbtq-veteran-care/)

> LGBTQ+ Veteran care Miami VA Healthcare System employees receive training in clinical care that is responsive to the unique needs of LGBTQ+ Veterans. Our trained LGBTQ+ Veteran care coordinators are fully equipped to support the health, welfare, and dignity of you and your family. Care we provide at the Miami VA Healthcare System Our LGBTQ+ Veteran care coordinators can answer your questions, advocate for your right to quality care, handle complaints or concerns you have about your care, and help you get started with any of our services for LGBTQ+ Veterans. These include: Mental health services, including psychosocial assessments for hormone therapy and gender confirming surgeries - Creative arts therapies - Hormone therapy - Gender-affirming prosthetics - Testing, counseling, and care for HIV and sexually transmitted infections, including PEP (post-exposure prophylaxis) and PrEP (pre-exposure prophylaxis) for Veterans at risk for HIV - Other prevention, screening, wellness, and testing services - Policies and practices to know The care coordinator can help you get started with care or with navigating any of these issues. Visitation: A same-sex partner, family member, friend, or other individual can be present with the patient for emotional support during the course of the patient's stay. Definition of family: "Family" may include individual(s) not legally related to the individual. Family members include spouses, domestic partners, different-sex and same-sex significant others. Advance directives: Veterans may designate any person as a decision-maker for care if they won't be able to make these decisions themselves. This includes same-sex partners. Advance directive agents are chosen by the Veteran and do not need to be biologically related. Documentation in medical records: VA Miami maintains the confidentiality of information about sexual orientation, sexual behavior, and gender identity, just like any other private health information. Changing name or sex in records: Your name in your medical record will reflect your legal name. The sex in your medical record should reflect your self-identified gender. You have the right to request that your name and sex are updated as appropriate. There are established procedures for changing your name and sex with the VA Privacy Officer. Connect with a care coordinator Heather M. Cherry LGBTQ+ Veterans Care Coordinator VA Miami health care Phone: Email: Heather.Cherry@va.gov
### https://www.va.gov/HOMELESS/updates/2023-06a-Directors-Message.asp


Message from Monica Diaz, Executive Director, VHA Homeless Programs Office [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.va.gov/HOMELESS/updates/2023-06a-Directors-Message.asp)

> VA Homeless Programs Message from Monica Diaz, Executive Director, VHA Homeless Programs Office June 2023 Each year, June marks the beginning of summer. School is out, families are going on vacations, and people are enjoying the good weather. But since 1970, it has also represented something far more significant in the LGBTQ+ community: Pride Month. The concept of Pride Month began with the Stonewall riots, a series of riots for gay liberation that took place in June 1969. Although pride marches were held in several cities the following year, it wouldn’t be officially recognized by the federal government until 1999, when President Bill Clinton declared the anniversary of the Stonewall riots every June as Gay and Lesbian Pride Month. In 2011, President Barack Obama expanded the officially recognized Pride Month to include the whole of the LGBT community: “I... proclaim June 2011 as Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Pride Month. I call upon the people of the United States to eliminate prejudice everywhere it exists, and to celebrate the great diversity of the American people.” We celebrate the many contributions LGBTQ+ individuals have made to American society — from the arts and education to healthcare and national security. We stand alongside the LGBTQ+ community and show them our support. We recognize the work that still needs to be done to achieve equality. VA is committed to proving quality care to all Veterans, and we are hard at work expanding the services we offer to address the specific concerns and needs of LGBTQ+ Veterans. In support of these goals, all VA facilities employ LGBTQ+ Veteran Care Coordinators, who help Veterans find culturally competent service providers. Each VA Medical Center has a list of LGBTQ+-specific resources, and VA staff is always available to help all Veterans without judgment, shame, or stigma. VA is a place that welcomes Veterans from all walks of life — a place that serves those who served. This can be seen reflected in our updated mission statement that VA released this March. The new mission statement is inclusive of all who have served our country — including women, LGBTQ+, and communities of color — and recognizes Veteran families, caregivers, and survivors. We want every Veteran to see themselves reflected in our mission statement and realize we are here to serve everyone equally. Our internal Dignity and Respect Campaign supports this very cause, designed to educate Veterans and VA employees on the basic building blocks of creating and sustaining inclusive and safe environments. Through recognizing seven pillars of dignity and respect, we hope to teach Veterans and VA staff not only what it means to be an ally, but also to be a champion for our fellow community members. June’s pillar emphasizes joining the team. We have all had moments where we are new to a team or group. In those moments, we may express a different point of view or a new idea. Sometimes we're sitting at a table where we look different than everyone else on the team. It’s in those moments that we can choose to fully engage with the team or stand and watch from the sidelines. It’s also in those moments that other members of the team can choose to welcome new members and value different perspectives. In the spirit of joining the team, I was lucky enough to attend the National Coalition for Homeless Veterans 2023 Annual Conference this month, meeting boots-on-the-ground team members and participating in a compelling discussion on the Federal Partners Panel. Through these interactions, I shared my ideas and perspectives with new people in a safe space anchored in dignity and respect. I was also proud that the Coalition recognized the VHA Homeless Programs Offices' own Director of Clinical Operations Jill Albanese, with the 2023 Federal Agency Staff Award, celebrating her dedication and leadership in addressing Veteran homelessness. I encourage you to find an opportunity this month to go above and beyond to be inclusive in your personal or professional life. This could be making a conscious effort to connect with people who are not the same as you, reaching out to a new team member who could use a friend, or adding your pronouns to your email to indicate that you are an ally. You never know the impact you can make with one simple choice. If you want to support change, now is the time to take action.
### https://www.va.gov/ORMDI/DiversityInclusion/LGBT.asp


Office of Resolution Management, Diversity Inclusion (ORMDI [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.va.gov/ORMDI/DiversityInclusion/LGBT.asp)

> Office of Resolution Management, Diversity & Inclusion (ORMDI) LGBTQ+ Program LGBTQ+ Program The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) proudly leads the effort to build a diverse workforce and cultivate an inclusive work environment. We do this by developing and implementing policies and programs that promote diversity and inclusion in our workplace as we strive to ensure that VA’s workforce is drawn from the broadest segments of society so that it is poised to meet the present and future needs of our Nation's Veterans, their families and beneficiaries. VA is committed to a diverse workforce and an inclusive workplace and understands that diversity and inclusion are essential for a high-performing organization that delivers the best service to our Nation's Veterans. The LGBTQ+ community is an integral aspect of our human diversity. To that end, VA has implemented several policies and programs addressing issues facing the LGBTQ+ community and is helping VA employees and patients access benefits made available by changes to Federal policy. For more information, view this Infographic on VA’s LGBTQ+ Program. Beginning on June 3, 2024, and lasting all month, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Office of Resolution Management, Diversity, and Inclusion, invites all employees across the enterprise, military-connected community partners, and Veterans to join us in the celebration of our 4th annual VA National Virtual PRIDE 2024. Join us as we present a variety of topics related to the LGBTQ+ community, including but not limited to medical advances, services and benefits offered by the VA, legal issues, and other relevant topics. To access a list of all the presentations that are part of the 2024 VA National Virtual Pride events Executive OrdersExecutive Order 13087 – Amending EO 11478 to prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation in the competitive service of the federal civilian workforce - Executive Order 13160 - Nondiscrimination on the Basis of Race, Sex, Color, National Origin, Disability, Religion, Age, Sexual Orientation, and Status as a Parent in Federally Conducted Education and Training Programs - Executive Order 13583 – Establishing a Coordinated Government-wide Initiative to Promote Diversity and Inclusion in the Federal Workforce - Executive Order 13672 – Amending EO 11478 and EO 11246 to prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity - Executive Order 13988 - Preventing and Combating Discrimination on the Basis of Gender Identity or Sexual Orientation - Executive Order 13985 – Advancing Racial Equity and Support for Underserved Communities Through the Federal Government - Executive Order 14035 – Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility in the Federal Workforce - VA Policies and Resources for Employees Since 2009, VA’s equal employment opportunity (EEO) protections have included sexual orientation and gender identity in the Secretary’s EEO, Diversity and Inclusion, No FEAR, and Whistleblower Rights and Protection Policy Statement [PDF].To complement this, VA developed and implemented a process to provide employees with an avenue of redress for complaints. See Addressing Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity Discriminationin Federal Civilian Employment) [PDF]. Additionally, transgender VA employees are protected from discrimination including protection while transitioning at work, access to sanitary facilities, and accurate documentation in employee files. Secretary’s EEO, Diversity and Inclusion, No FEAR, and Whistleblower Rights and Protection Policy Statement [PDF] - VA Directive 5975, Diversity and Inclusion [PDF] - VA Handbook 5975.4, Transgender Employee Transition Guidance [PDF] - VA Handbook 5975.5, Special Emphasis Program Management [PDF] - Processing Equal Employment Opportunity Complaints Based on Sexual Orientation [PDF] - Are you a VA employee who has questions or concerns about issues facing LGBTQ+ VA Employees? Send an e-mail to VA’s LGBTQ+ Employee Workgroup which addresses LGBTQ+-related questions and concerns. A member of the Workgroup will review your e-mail and make every effort to address your concern. The e-mail group is confidential; even if your email is forwarded to another office for guidance, your name will be omitted to protect your privacy. Try it! Affinity Organizations Gay and Lesbian Medical Association (GLMA) - Out & Equal Workplace Advocates - National Center for Transgender Equality - Transgender American Veterans Association - Transgender Law Center - External Affinity Conferences Approved for VA-wide Participation (VA External Affinity Conferences Memo [PDF]) For more information on external affinity conferences approved for VA-wide participation, please visit the following: Gay and Lesbian Medical Association (GLMA) Annual Conference on LGBT Health - Out & Equal Workplace Summit - Training/Events November 17, 2021: Gender Awareness & Pronouns Usage [PDF] - November 16, 2021: Transgender Employee Transition Guidance [PDF] - October 13, 2021: National LGBTQ+ Affirming Therapy Flyer [PDF] - History of LGBTQ+ [PDF] - Observances (VA SEP Observances Memo [PDF]) ORMDI provides a SEP Observances Toolkit as guidance to field facilities on implementing activities for special observances, including the following: Pride Month (June). For VA LGBTQ+ Pride Month posters, visit the Veterans Health Administration, Patient Care Services - Federal Policies and Resources Office of Personnel Management Guidance on the Extension of Benefits to Married Gay and Lesbian Federal Employees, Annuitants, and Their Families - Federal Management Regulation; Nondiscrimination Clarification in the Federal Workplace - Office of Personnel Management Resource Guide Addressing Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity Discrimination in Federal Civilian Employment [PDF] - Department of Labor Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Best Practices: A Guide to Restroom Access for Transgender Workers [PDF] - Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Fact Sheet on Bathroom Access Rights for Transgender Employees Under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 [PDF] - Supreme Court Ruling on Title VII and LGBT Protections [PDF] - Supreme Court Ruling on Same Sex Marriage [PDF] - Department of Defense: Repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell - VA Policies and Resources for Veterans VA Office of Public and Intergovernmental Affairs Important Information on Marriage - Benefits for LGBTQ+ Service Members and Veterans - In the area of health care delivery, the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) is committed to a patient-centered approach that organizes services around the needs and values of LGBT Veterans. To that end, VA has enacted a variety of policies relating to LGBTQ+ Veteran Care. To learn about these policies, review the following: Rights and Responsibilities of VA Patients and Residents of Community Living Centers - Rights and Responsibilities of Family Members of VA Patients and Residents of Community Living Centers - VA has instituted a policy to provide respectful delivery of health care to transgender and intersex Veterans which includes use of self-identified name and pronoun, documentation of sex in the computerized patient reporting system, hormone therapy, and pre/post-surgery medical care. For more information about this policy, review the following: Providing Health Care for Transgender and Intersex Veterans (VHA Directive 1341) [PDF] - LGBTQ+ Veteran Health Care Fact Sheet - Male Veterans: Transgender Male Health Care [PDF] - LGBTQ+ Veteran Health Care Fact Sheet - Female Veterans: Transgender Female Health Care [PDF] - LGBTQ+ Veteran Health Care Fact Sheet - Male Veterans: Gay and Bisexual Health Care [PDF] - LGBTQ+ Veteran Health Care Fact Sheet - Female Veterans: Lesbian and Bisexual Health Care [PDF] - If you are a Veteran, dependent, or support person and would like information about VA services for LGBTQ+ Veterans, contact the LGBTQ+ Veteran Care Coordinator (LGBTQ+ VCC) at your local facility. Visit the Office of Patient Care Services, Veterans with LGBTQ+ and Related Identities, for the LGBTQ+ VCC list. If you experience difficulties locating the LGBTQ+ VCC at your facility, please email the VA LGBTQ+ Program. If you are in crisis, PLEASE call the 24-hour Crisis Hotline at 1-800-273-8255 option 1 or visit the Veterans Crisis Line. VA Policies & Resources for Employees & Veterans PrideVA is a Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) employee resource group for gender and sexual minorities, including, but not limited to, those identifying as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, or queer (LGBTQ+), as well as allies. Everyone supporting PrideVA’s mission and vision is invited and encouraged to join PrideVA – Advocating for Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility in the Workplace. Disclaimer: Although PrideVA are recognized as an employee resource group within VA, they are still an independent, non-governmental organization and not an official VA organization. Employment ORMDI does not offer or conduct employment services. Please visit the following: VA Careers - Veteran Employment Program (VEP) - National Diversity Internship Program (NDIP) - Workforce Recruitment Program (WRP) - Pathways at VA - Department of Labor, Career One Stop - External Government Resources Census, LGBT Pride Month - Legal and Financial Considerations for Lesbian and Gay Service Members - LGBT in the U.S. Air Force - LGBT in the U.S. Army - LGBT in the U.S. Coast Guard - LGBT in the U.S. Marine Corps - LGBT in the U.S. Navy - National Archives, LGBT Issues in Records - National Archives, Veterans Service Records - Veterans History Project - Program Contact Mr. Sterling Akins, VA’s National LGBTQ+ Program Manager, ORMDI. Diversity & Inclusion Section Pages D&I Home| D&I Training| Workforce Analysis| Policies| D&I in VA Council| D&I Excellence Awards| Diversity@Work Newsletter| Special Emphasis Programs|
### https://www.va.gov/HOMELESS/updates/2023-06-QA-Marzena-Guzik.asp


VA Homeless Programs [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.va.gov/HOMELESS/updates/2023-06-QA-Marzena-Guzik.asp)

> VA Homeless Programs Employee Spotlight June 12, 2023 Marzena Guzik National Contracted Residential Services (CRS) Coordinator Health Care for Homeless Veterans (HCHV) Program Q: How long have you worked for VA? A: I just hit my 10-year mark in March! Prior to that, I was also an intern with VA. Q: What has your role been like as a National CRS Coordinator? A: I oversee close to 300 contracts with community providers for residential services. These range from emergency residential services to very specialized contracts, such as medical respite, low-demand safe havens, and other contracts that are available to communities nationwide. Q: How do these services help Veterans experiencing homelessness? A: CRS is both an emergency service and a transitional housing service. When outreach workers engage with homeless Veterans, it's critical to offer immediate and safe housing options. This may not be the ultimate permanent housing option, like an apartment, but it's a safe place where Veterans can stay while they work on their bigger goal of achieving permanent housing. CRS also provides case management and rehabilitation services. Some of our more specialized contracts offer medical, mental health and substance use services. Q: Why is it important to you that VA and its homeless programs are accessible to LGBTQ+ Veterans? A: That's a great question. Historically, certain groups of Veterans have not gotten the same care and treatment as the majority. This has been true for many different populations. When we look at the LGBTQ+ population, there's a lot of heavy background there. For years, “Don't Ask, Don't Tell” was in place, where LGBTQ+ Veterans were not able to talk about their identity or their family lives. This hindered them and their ability to access services. The “Don't Ask, Don't Tell” philosophy often carried over into their conversations with the VA. Many times, if those Veterans became homeless, they would be hesitant to discuss their family lives with VA providers, fearing the same repercussions they feared while they were in the service. A more recent example was the 2019 military ban of transgender Veterans. Active transgender service members were banned from the military and disqualified from receiving services. We now have to work especially hard to engage those Veterans and create a completely different experience where Veterans are comfortable coming to us when they need help and can speak openly about their situation and what it is that they're experiencing. It will take a lot of work. Personally, I can tell you that people who have experienced LGBTQ+-linked discrimination are always looking for signs that a particular place is safe and welcoming. When I walk into a new setting, I subconsciously look for signs that would tell me if this is a place where I can be my authentic self. Is this a place where I can talk about my family structure? Is this a place where I can be open about who I am? If the answer to that question is no, you're going to get a very limited version of me and my life experience. So, when Veterans walk into community organizations and VA settings, it's critical that they see signs that this is a place where you can be your authentic self and openly talk about your needs. It's also fundamental that every program has a comprehensive anti-discrimination policy. There are instances where VA funded community organizations do not provide Veterans with the service they rightfully deserve. In these instances, we can point to the policy and put the provider on notice that this is not acceptable, and they need to do better. That gives us the teeth we need to ensure that LGBTQ+ Veterans get the services they need and deserve. Q: What is your “why” for the work you do? A: It’s a bit of a trifecta. First, I have a sincere belief that in this day and age in the United States, people shouldn’t be experiencing homelessness and that we must work hard to eliminate the systemic roadblocks that keep people in the cycle of poverty and homelessness. This is especially true for Veterans who have served this country. Second, I was fortunate to get a VA internship early in my career and I absolutely fell in love with working with the Veteran population. I admire their resilience, determination and code of honor. I sincerely enjoy the work and the ability to bring resources to this very deserving population. Third, if you are interested in cutting edge research and years of meticulously collected data on best practices to solving homelessness, the VA is the place for you. Innovation, best practices, scrupulous data-gathering and cultivating a culture of continuous improvement is a part of everything we do to make sure that Veterans get the best care in the world. For me, that trifecta has made me a part of the VA team for life.
## [VA News and Information](news.va.gov): ~24 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://news.va.gov/90365/healthcare-professionals-webinar-caring-lgbtq-veterans/


Health Care Professionals Webinar: Caring for LGBTQ+ Veterans [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://news.va.gov/90365/healthcare-professionals-webinar-caring-lgbtq-veterans/)

> June is Pride Month and the theme allows us to reflect on the contributions of the LGBTQ+ community in the workforce and society. This observance month also allows us to highlight the health care challenges and barriers LGBTQ+ individuals experience within the health care system to receive culturally and clinically competent care. On June 24 at 1 p.m. ET, Dr. Michael Kauth and Dr. Jillian C. Shipherd, both directors of the VA LGBTQ+ Health Program, will deliver the presentation Treating the Unique Health Care Needs of Veterans with Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Related Identities. Presenters will share how to recognize the health needs and disparities experienced by LGBTQ+ Veterans. They also will discuss why and how to ask patients about their birth sex, gender identity and sexual orientation. They’ll share strategies for creating a more welcoming practice for LGBTQ+ Veteran patients that you can incorporate into your treatment approach. Webinar Information Title: Treating the Unique Health Care Needs of Veterans with Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Related Identities - When: Thursday, June 24, 2021, at 1:00 p.m. ET - Register: Register in VHA TRAIN. Webinar will be recorded for later viewing. - Target Audience: Clinical and administrative staff - We hope to you can attend! Barbara Plantt is the outreach coordinator for Digital Engagement, OCC Communications. Topics in this story More Stories Caregivers can play a crucial role in suicide prevention, offering support to Veterans in your care. If you’re a Veteran enrolled in VA health care, you now have access to VA tele-emergency care – should you need it – through VA Health Connect Veteran Jeff Cook has experienced the power of immersive technology and is telling his story in hopes of helping other Veterans.
### https://news.va.gov/100069/health-equity-podcast-episode-8-lgbtq-veteran-health/?utm_source=vrvpbottomlink&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=vetresources


Health Equity Podcast Episode 8 – LGBTQ+ Veteran health [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://news.va.gov/100069/health-equity-podcast-episode-8-lgbtq-veteran-health/?utm_source=vrvpbottomlink&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=vetresources)

> In this chartbook, the term LGB refers to individuals who identified as lesbian, gay, or bisexual. The term non-LGB refers to individuals who identified themselves as “straight, that is not gay” in their responses to the survey. While the health of all LGBTQ+ Veterans is a priority for VA, this chartbook utilizes the 2013-2018 National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) National Health Interview Survey (NHIS), which only has data available for a subset of the LGBTQ+ population. The Office of Health Equity (OHE) champions the elimination of health disparities and achieving health equity for all Veterans, including LGBTQ+ Veterans. LGBTQ+ refers to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer/questioning identities. The ‘+’ sign also captures essences beyond LGBTQ, including pansexual, asexual, agender, gender diverse, nonbinary, gender-neutral and other identities. LGB Veterans Health Chartbook explained In this episode, Julia McGirr, fellow with the Office of Health Equity, is joined by Dr. Ernest Moy, executive director of OHE; and Kayla Williams, assistant secretary, Office of Public and Intergovernmental Affairs. Moy summarizes the findings of the LGB Veteran Health Chartbook. Since VA does not currently collect data on the sexual orientation of Veterans, OHE partnered with the National Center for Health Statistics at the Centers for Disease control. This enabled them to use data they collected from national surveys on the health and health care of different Veterans groups. This database also allows us to compare Veterans to non-Veterans and LGB Veterans to straight Veterans. The results showed that LGB Veterans had worse health status than straight Veterans and LGBTQ+ non-Veterans, especially in mental health and health-related behaviors. Moy emphasizes that LGBTQ+ Veterans are not to blame for this disparity. It also demonstrated that military service harms LGBTQ+ individuals. “Minority stress” could be a factor Williams explains that “minority stress” could be a factor in the health disparity for LGB Veterans. Minority stress indicates that it’s not the LGBTQ+ status itself that is predictive of worse health outcomes but the impact of being systematically discriminated against. She points to “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” as an example of the discrimination against LGBGTQ+ individuals in the military. Civilian literature shows that LGBTQ+ individuals are at increased risk for poor health outcomes. The Department of Defense literature shows that LGBTQ+ troops are at similar risk. Moy and Williams encourage VA health care providers to think about risk factors when providing care and be incredibly mindful of VA’s role in working with these individuals and not adding additional stress. In closing, they describe why this data is essential and how it can be used to inform care at VA. Every Veteran deserves high-quality health care provided with dignity and respect. Williams also outlines some of VA’s accomplishments in LGBTQ+ equality. She is proud to be a part of this change and expansion to reach and serve all Veterans equally. Program information We invite you to check out the Veterans Health Equity podcast web page on all your favorite places to listen to podcasts. Visit Patient Care Services website to learn more about Health Equity information, research, topics, training and more. Topics in this story More Stories Learn more about 25 featured innovations developed by VA employees in the 2024 VHA State of Innovation Report. Your pharmacist collaborates with your health care providers to manage chronic medical conditions and offer disease management services. VA provides world-class Alzheimer’s health care to all Veterans, their caregivers and families.
### https://news.va.gov/111092/honoring-victims-of-anti-transgender-violence/


Honoring victims of anti-transgender violence [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://news.va.gov/111092/honoring-victims-of-anti-transgender-violence/)

> Research indicates that individuals in the LGBTQ+ community are disproportionately affected by hate crimes, particularly those who identify as transgender. Transgender Day of Remembrance (TDoR), observed annually on Nov. 20, recognizes experiencers of anti-transgender violence to shine a light on the persistence of these crimes and to memorialize those who have experienced them. A report by the Human Rights Watch, a nonprofit that investigates and reports on abuses happening around the world, states that âThe violence and discrimination that transgender people experience is deeply intersectional, with different forms of vulnerability shaped by race, gender, class, ability and nationality, among other factors. In 2020, more than three-quarters of the transgender and non-binary people killed in the United States were people of color, with Black transgender women at particular risk of violence.â VA is dedicated to respectful, safe, and welcoming environments for all. As a way to honor that commitment, VA has placed an emphasis on ensuring individuals from the LGBTQ+ community have equal opportunity and access to adequate health care. An environment free of harassment It is a strategic priority to create an environment free of harassment, including gender-based harassment and sexual assault that allows Veterans, employees, family members, caregivers, and survivors feel empowered to bring their whole, authentic selves to work. In 2021, the White House honored TDoR through several key actions: - Issued a statement, citing that at least 46 lives were lost so far in 2021 (in the U.S.), the deadliest year for anti-transgender violence - Held a vigilÂ in recognition of transgender and gender-diverse people lost to violence - Called for the passing of the Equality Act - Released a reportÂ explaining several actions taken by the Administration to address the root cause of anti-trans violence and discrimination During this day of Transgender Remembrance, we ask Veterans, family members, caregivers, survivors and VA employees to stand up for one another and show their support to put an end to crimes directed toward individuals who identify as transgender. What you can do - Take the White Ribbon VA Pledge to stop violence against others and wear the white ribbon: I, [your name], pledge to never commit, excuse or stay silent about sexual harassment, sexual assault or domestic violence against others.Â Document your commitment: www.whiteribbonusa.org/whiteribbon-va-pledge. - Learn how to protect yourself and those around you with VAâs Bystander Intervention Training If you experience harassment or sexual assault If you experience or witness inappropriate behavior taking place at a VA facility, report it to the VA Police, a Patient Advocate, or your Primary Care Provider immediately. All reports of harassment and sexual assault will be investigated. For more information, visit the Veterans Health Administrationâs Assault and Harassment Prevention Office home page. To learn more about VHAâs LGBTQ+ Health Program, visit VHA LGBTQ+ Health Program – Patient Care Services (va.gov). Topics in this story Link Disclaimer This page includes links to other websites outside our control and jurisdiction. VA is not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of non-VA Web sites. We encourage you to review the privacy policy or terms and conditions of those sites to fully understand what information is collected and how it is used. Statement of Endorsement Reference herein to any specific commercial products, process, or service by trade name, trademark, manufacturer, or otherwise, does not necessarily constitute or imply its endorsement, recommendation, or favoring by the United States Government, and shall not be used for advertising or product endorsement purposes. More Stories Simulation goal is to train health care providers and local emergency responders to react in adverse situations. Twin clinicians Kyler and Skyler provide physical, cognitive and leisure development to support Veteransâ chosen life pursuits. VHAâs National SimVET Center was the center of robotics in health care during the Autonomous Caregivers Robotic Demonstrations.
### https://news.va.gov/114088/how-to-support-lgbtq-veterans-in-crisis/


How to support LGBTQ+ Veterans in crisis [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://news.va.gov/114088/how-to-support-lgbtq-veterans-in-crisis/)

> If youâre a Veteran who identifies as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer or another orientation or identity (LGBTQ+) who is facing a physical or mental health challenge, youâre not alone. VA welcomes all Veterans and their families and caregivers, including Veterans with diverse gender identities, sexual orientations and family structures. As a Veteran who works for the nationâs largest health care system, Iâm committed to making sure LGBTQ+ Veterans know theyâre welcome at VA where theyâll receive affirming care and services to achieve optimal health and well-being.Â Iâm dedicated to letting those who love and support LGBTQ+ Veterans know they have a role to play too, by learning how to talk to their loved ones and knowing what to do in a crisis situation. A mission of care LGBTQ+ people have a long history of honorable military service. However, open service for sexual minority people was only possible after 2011, when the Department of Defenseâs Donât Ask, Donât Tell (DADT) policy was repealed. Open service for transgender and gender diverse people was possible briefly between 2016-2019, but then they were not able to serve openly again until 2021. While VA has long served LGBTQ+ Veterans, the legacy of these policies continues to impact LGBTQ+ Veteransâ impression of inclusivity at VA. Research shows LGBTQ+ Veterans expect to experience discrimination in VA facilities which may prevent them from seeking care. Research also shows that, due to stigma, stress, and discrimination, LGBTQ+ Veterans as a group experience higher rates of several health conditions compared to non-LGBTQ+ Veterans, including higher risk for suicide. My colleagues and I work every day to provide high-qualityÂ health care for LGBTQ+ Veterans and help all Veterans manage health challenges in a sensitive, respectful environment. You can learn more about how issues associated with your identity can affect your health and how to talk about them with your doctor. This resource locator can help you find the care you need. How to start a conversation You donât have to be a mental health expert to support a Veteran. You just have to show genuine care and concern. Here are some ways to approach a conversation with a Veteran who may be suicidal. Itâs important to know various groups of Veterans have experienced discrimination that may contribute to their distress. But this information applies to all Veterans, no matter their branch, age, sex assigned at birth, gender, ethnicity or sexual orientation. First, encourage the Veteran to speak freely and find out how you might be able to help. You can ask questions: âWhen did you first start feeling like killing yourself?â - âDid something happen that made you feel like killing yourself?â - When responding to answers from a Veteran, remember simple, encouraging feedback goes a long way in showing support and encouraging help-seeking: âIâm here for you. How do you hurt and how can I help?â - âCan we talk for a while and see if we can find a way to keep you safe right now?â - âI might not be able to understand exactly what youâre going through or how you feel, but I care about you and want to help.â - Even for Veterans who donât appear to be experiencing suicidal thoughts, itâs important to encourage them to find resources to help them face mental health challenges and more. For more information about VAâs mental health resources, including VA S.A.V.E. Training, visit mentalhealth.va.gov. What to do in case of a crisis If you believe a Veteran is at high risk or has already acted on a suicide plan, call 911. Remember: Never negotiate with someone who has a gun. Get to safety and call 911, noting the Veteran is armed. - If the Veteran has taken pills or acted on a suicide plan in some way, call 911. - Veterans who are in emotional distress and showing warning signs for suicide can be connected to the Veterans Crisis Line: Dial 988 then Press 1, chat online, or text 838255. Caring, qualified responders are available to provide free, confidential support 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year. - Responders are available to speak to Veterans and their caregivers, family members, or friends. Though all Veterans are different, our goal remains constant: improving the health and well-being of Veterans to enhance their quality of life. Topics in this story More Stories Cold and flu season is here. A balanced diet supports your immune system to help keep you healthy. William Snow, senior program specialist at HUD, explains how the Point-in-Time Count provides valuable data on Veteran homelessness. Gratitude is a light that shines through lifeâs ups and downs. Embrace gratitude this holiday season in just five minutes for this week's #LiveWholeHealth practice.
### https://news.va.gov/125216/ptsd-bytes-trauma-in-the-lgbtq-community/


PTSD Bytes: Trauma in the LGBTQ+ community [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://news.va.gov/125216/ptsd-bytes-trauma-in-the-lgbtq-community/)

> In this episode of the PTSD Bytes podcast, the hosts discuss trauma and resilience in the LGBTQ+ community with Dr. Eve Rosenfeld from the National Center for PTSD. The LGBTQ+ community The term âLGBTQ+â is a way to talk about people who are lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer or questioning, and other sexuality or gender identities. It includes people from all walks of life. There is a strong and resilient LGBTQ+ community, but many face extra difficulties because of their identities. Trauma risk in the LGBTQ+ community LBGTQ+ people are more likely to experience interpersonal traumas, such as abuse or assault. And these types of traumas are more likely to lead to the development of full-blown posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). On top of that, LGBTQ+ people deal with extra stress due to discrimination which can make things even harder. In this Make the Connection video, LBGTQ+ Veterans talk about their experiences: Discrimination Discrimination against LGBTQ+ folks can take many forms. Some are easy to spot, like losing a job because of being transgender. Others are sneakier, like hurtful comments such as, âI donât care who you love, just donât make it your whole personality.â There are also unfair laws that can affect housing, education and other areas of life. This discrimination piles up and causes more stress, which can make life feel unsafe at times. LGBTQ+ people also have to manage the stress of when it is safe to be out or to hide their identity. Impact on mental health Some people start believing some of the negative things said about the LGBTQ+ community, which can cause feelings of shame. Studies show that LGBTQ+ people are more likely to have issues with substance use, depression, anxiety and thoughts of suicide because of all the stress and discrimination they face. However, a sense of pride and the large social support network that can be accessed by LGBTQ+ folks can help reduce the impact of stress caused by discrimination and trauma. Mental health care and support for the LGBTQ+ community It is not always easy for LGBTQ+ people to get the mental health care they may need. Finding a mental health provider who understands these unique experiences is essential. Look for someone who knows about LGBTQ+ culture and can make you feel safe. For LGBTQ+ Veterans, every facility now has an LGBTQ+ Veteran care coordinator who can help connect you to appropriate providers. You can find more information at the VA LGBTQ+ Health Office website. There aren’t many digital tools specifically for LGBTQ+ trauma, but apps like PTSD Coach and Beyond MST can help with building coping skills. Creating safe spaces If youâre a client, you have the right to ask providers questions to make sure youâre comfortable working with them. You could ask how many years experience working with LGBTQ+ clients they have. If you work in health care, you can make LGBTQ+ folks feel safer by being understanding and open. It’s not just about saying your office is welcoming. It’s about really making it safe. Learn about providing LGBTQ+ affirming care by taking trainings and reading research in your field. Additional links: VA LGBT Mental Health webpage - Learn more about self-help and coping with PTSD - Online chat and mental health resources for LGBTQ+ youth (ages 13-24) - More PTSD Bytes episodes - For health care providers: Learn more about Trauma, Discrimination and PTSD Among LGBTQ+ People - VA recorded webinar: âClinical Considerations and Guidance for the Treatment of Trauma, PTSD, and Co-occurring Minority Stress among LGBTQ Individualsâ (presented by Nicholas Livingston, Ph.D, Aug. 19, 2020) - If you are a Veteran who is experiencing a crisis or supporting a loved one who is, call 988 and press 1 for immediate assistance, or chat online at VeteransCrisisLine.net/chat. Topics in this story Link Disclaimer This page includes links to other websites outside our control and jurisdiction. VA is not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of non-VA Web sites. We encourage you to review the privacy policy or terms and conditions of those sites to fully understand what information is collected and how it is used. More Stories Gratitude is a light that shines through lifeâs ups and downs. Embrace gratitude this holiday season in just five minutes for this week's #LiveWholeHealth practice. VICK, a wheelchair-cleaning kiosk, is transforming wheelchair sanitation in VA hospitals with UVC technology. Tomorrow is Giving Tuesday. Your support can change Veterans' lives and create a better experience for their families, caregivers and survivors.
### https://news.va.gov/119841/suicide-prevention-and-lgbtq-veterans/?utm_source=blue&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=VetResources&utm_id=24MAY2023


Suicide prevention and LGBTQ+ Veterans [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://news.va.gov/119841/suicide-prevention-and-lgbtq-veterans/?utm_source=blue&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=VetResources&utm_id=24MAY2023)

> Many people donât think twice about scheduling an appointment with a doctor. Their biggest barriers may be insurance concerns or finding the time for a visit. But what if you avoid seeking care because of historic attitudes toward your sexual orientation or gender identity? This is the situation many Veterans who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer or another minority orientation (LGBTQ+) face. Further complicating matters is the fact that LGBTQ+ people have greater rates of experiencing suicidality and suicide attempts than their non-LGBTQ+ peers, not due to their sexual orientation or gender identity but because of health care disparities and discrimination. LGBTQ+ people are not inherently prone to suicide risk. Being aware of risk and protective factors can make it possible to provide appropriate and relevant emotional support when itâs wanted or needed. Listening to and validating someoneâs emotions are two quick ways to help in situations where someone needs support. Providers can also offer visible LGBTQ+-affirming care and a welcoming environment. On a larger scale, there are things anyone can do to help LGBTQ+ Veterans. The first step Being affirming of Veteransâ identities is essential. One difficulty in finding support for LGBTQ+ Veterans and to help lower their suicide risk is that many of their specific risk factors are directly related to discrimination, access to care and health equity issues. These things arenât easy to change immediately because theyâre part of a cultural bias toward LGBTQ+ Veterans. More importantly, community members and health care providers can address the barriers and discrimination LGBTQ+ Veterans experience to help reduce this risk factor by talking about why sexual orientation and gender identity matter in health care. Being aware of other risk factors can empower LGBTQ+ Veterans to get support. Here are some things to think about: Loneliness and social isolation. Increased physical and emotional support from your family, friends, co-workers and others can lower suicide risk. Consider joining an LGBTQ+ Veteran group or one devoted to your hobby, or start a group if you canât find one. Veterans Service Organizations, such as local or national LGBTQ+ Veteran groups, are also good places to find people who understand Veterans and the unique challenges they face. For more information, visit the VHA LGBTQ+ Health Program â Patient Care Services site. - Firearm ownership. Firearms are the leading cause of suicide among Veterans, and studies tell us LGBTQ+ Veterans are twice as likely to own a gun (a significant independent risk factor for suicide) when compared to non-LGBTQ+ Veterans. Learn about safe and secure firearm storage to help lower your risk. - Economic and social issues. Homelessness, bias in the military and employment instability are just some factors that can increase suicide risk for LGBTQ+ Veterans. If youâre a Veteran who is homeless or experiencing housing instability, find resources offered by VAâs Homeless Programs. If you need help with job training, education, employment accommodations, resume development and job-seeking skills coaching, VAâs Veteran Readiness and Employment program can offer assistance. - Sexual orientation and gender identity matter in health care. LGBTQ+ Veterans face increased health risks and unique challenges in accessing affirming health care, especially if providers donât ask about sexual orientation and gender identity. VHA is working to assure that high-quality careâincluding suicide preventionâis provided to LGBTQ+ Veterans in a person-centered andÂ respectful environment. Learn more about talking to your provider by reading these patient education brochures. Every facility has a local LGBTQ+ Veteran care coordinator (LGBTQ+ VCC). - Resources for Veterans and their loved ones You can find answers to frequently asked questions, how to upgrade your character of discharge from the military, and patient education information about health risks for specific subgroups of LGBTQ+ Veterans through VHAâs LGBTQ+ Health Program. Talk to your local LGBTQ+ VCC to find out what services are available at the facility nearest to you. We offer a range of resources available toall Veterans, not just those enrolled in VA benefits or health care: Veterans Crisis Line is a free, 24/7 confidential resource that connects Veterans and their loved ones to a caring, qualified responder. Dial 988 then press 1, chat online at at the Veterans Crisis Line, or text 838255. - VA Mental Health. VAâs repository of mental health and suicide prevention resources, information and data materials. - The National Resource Directory connects wounded warriors, Veterans, service members, their families and caregivers to national, state, and local services and resources. - If you care about a Veteran who identifies as LGBTQ+, you donât have to feel powerless. Small actions, like starting a conversation, can make a big difference. For more information, including how to identify signs of crisis, see our Crisis Conversation Handout. To read more stories on LGBTQ+ health care, visit VA News and Information. Topics in this story Link Disclaimer This page includes links to other websites outside our control and jurisdiction. VA is not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of non-VA Web sites. We encourage you to review the privacy policy or terms and conditions of those sites to fully understand what information is collected and how it is used. More Stories Caregivers can play a crucial role in suicide prevention, offering support to Veterans in your care. If youâre a Veteran enrolled in VA health care, you now have access to VA tele-emergency care â should you need it â through VA Health Connect Veteran Jeff Cook has experienced the power of immersive technology and is telling his story in hopes of helping other Veterans.
### https://news.va.gov/94920/tenth-anniversary-of-the-repeal-of-dont-ask-dont-tell/


Tenth anniversary of the repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://news.va.gov/94920/tenth-anniversary-of-the-repeal-of-dont-ask-dont-tell/)

> Today marks the tenth anniversary of the repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell, a policy put into place on Feb. 28, 1994, to prevent lesbian, gay and bisexual (LGB) service members from serving in the military openly. Although the policy was considered a “compromise” from the previous Department of Defense policy dating back to World War II that empowered the military to pursue – or “ask” – service members suspected of engaging in homosexual acts, DADT nevertheless led to the discharge of an estimated 14,000 service members during the almost 18 years it was in place. Today, the Department of Veterans Affairs is working to reverse the harm done to all LGBTQ+ Veterans. The repeal of DADT gave LGB service members the freedom to serve without having to hide an essential part of themselves. It also recognized what so many of us already knew to be true: That one’s ability to serve in the military should be measured by character, skills and abilities, not who one loves. For LGB service members, repeal of DADT meant freedom from having to go through the inhumanity of having to lie about the basic aspects of their lives in order to serve in uniform. For many, the repeal also meant freedom from abuse and harassment from leaders and colleagues who disregarded the policy’s explicit bar on pursuing and targeting suspected service members. In truth, there was never an effective mechanism under DADT that truly protected service members from harassment, and repeal was the only way that service members were able to seek recourse against harassment. As a bisexual Veteran, I chose to present as straight during the push to repeal DADT. It made sense at the time that there was a more pressing need for me as a woman married to a man to say, “No one in my unit cared if anyone was gay while we were in Iraq.” I could talk credibly about how the lack of sufficient Arabic linguists harmed our effectiveness downrange, and my own identity seemed irrelevant. It took many years for me to shed the toxic legacy of having served under DADT and come back out of the closet; I’m proud to recognize this anniversary as my authentic self. At VA, we continuously work not only to meet the needs of LGBTQ+ Veterans, but also to address ongoing issues that LGBTQ+ Veterans face as a result of the military’s decades-long official policy of homophobia and transphobia. Earlier this year, Veterans Affairs Secretary Denis McDonough made it a priority to ensure that LGBTQ+ Veterans have the same level of access to VA care and services as all other Veterans have. Actions he has taken include establishing a task force to examine how VA policies hinder or prohibit access to care and services and working to remove barriers that transgender Veterans face in accessing gender-affirming care. Today, we are also taking steps to clarify VA policy for Veterans who were given other than honorable discharges based on homosexual conduct, gender identity or HIV status. Under this newly-issued guidance, VA adjudicators shall find that all discharged service members whose separation was due to sexual orientation, gender identity or HIV status are considered “Veterans” who may be eligible for VA benefits, like VR&E, home loan guaranty, compensation & pension, health care, homeless program and/or burial benefits, so long as the record does not implicate a statutory or regulatory bar to benefits. This policy statement does not represent a change in law, as Veterans who were discharged under DADT alone have been generally eligible for benefits under current statute and regulation. However, this policy reiterates what constitutes eligibility for benefits under law. In addition, every Character of Discharge case that is initially considered for denial will also get a second look before that action is taken. Given that large numbers of LGBTQ+ Veterans who were affected by previous homophobic and transphobic policies have not applied for a discharge upgrade due to the perception that the process could be onerous, we are hopeful that this policy statement encourages more of them to contact VA to determine their eligibility for care and services. Although VA recognizes that the trauma caused by the military’s decades-long policy of discrimination against LGBTQ+ people cannot be undone in a few short months, the Biden administration and Secretary McDonough are taking the steps necessary to begin addressing the pain that such policies have created. LGBTQ+ Veterans are not any less worthy of the care and services that all Veterans earn through their service, and VA is committed to making sure that they have equal access to those services. Topics in this story More Stories Under Secretary for Health talks with two Veterans who have benefited from a groundbreaking new way to attach a prosthetic limb. On Thursday, June 20, 2024, VA joined more than 20 federal agencies to release its updated 2024-2027 Climate Adaptation Plan. In a special town hall event on Wednesday, Nov. 8, VA Secretary Denis McDonough addressed the top requested concerns from Veterans and their families, caregivers and survivors.
### https://news.va.gov/104780/this-pride-month-va-is-proud-of-all-lgbtq-veterans/


This Pride Month, VA is proud of all LGBTQ+ Veterans [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://news.va.gov/104780/this-pride-month-va-is-proud-of-all-lgbtq-veterans/)

> VA joins President Biden in saluting our LGBTQ+ Veterans this month, and every month. Pride Month is also a reminder that just as LGBTQ+ Veterans volunteered to defend our freedom, it is our responsibility to help defend theirs. âI often say that America can be defined by one word: possibilities,â said President Joe Biden. In his Proclamation on Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, And Intersex Pride Month, the President affirmed, âThis month, we celebrate generations of LGBTQI+ people who have fought to make the possibilities of our nation real for every American.â Continuing the fight for LGBTQ+ rights More than a decade after âDonât Ask, Donât Tellâ was repealed, LGBTQ+ Veterans continue to face discrimination and violence in America, simply for being their authentic selves. The consequences of such discrimination reverberate across generations. LGBTQ+ Veterans are more than twice as likely to have indicators of housing instability in their VHA medical records compared with non-transgender Veterans. Rejection from their families and exclusion from employment opportunities contribute to homelessness among LGBTQ+ Veterans. Many of the risk factors for homelessness that LGBTQ+ Veterans face â including decreased social support, stressful life events, and chronic discrimination â overlap with risk factors for suicide. Tragically, those who have a sexual and/or gender minority are more likely than their cisgender and heterosexual peers to experience suicidal ideation and behavior. The high rates of these outcomes among LGBTQ+ Veterans are distressing, but they can be prevented. VA: A place for all Veterans Providing care that is free from stigma is a critical step toward ending homelessness, preventing suicide and ensuring all LGBTQ+ Veterans can live safely and freely in the country they served. VA is committed to making all Veterans feel comfortable and supported. At every VA medical center, an LGBTQ+ Veteran Care Coordinator is ready to help Veterans navigate their care, answer their questions, and advocate on their behalf. Through initiatives like the PRIDE program, VA facilitates training for staff members and Veterans alike to reduce health disparities for Veterans across the nation. In 2021, VA Secretary Denis McDonough ordered a review of VA policies to ensure that transgender Veterans and employees do not face discrimination based on their gender identity and expression. Flying the flag with pride As our nation celebrates Pride Month, VA encourages all Americans to identify how they can best support the LGBTQ+ Veterans in their lives. Honoring them could be as simple as asking their preferred pronouns, sharing resources that could help a fellow Veteran, or displaying the Rainbow Flag designed by Army Veteran Gilbert Baker in 1978. This Pride Month, VA honors and celebrates Baker, and all LGBTQ+ Veterans who have dedicated their lives to ensuring America fulfills the promise of freedom to all Americans, no matter who they are, or whom they love. Learn about VA programs Learn more about VHA LGBTQ+ Health Program and locate the LGBTQ+ Veteran Care Coordinator (LGBTQ+ VCC) at your nearest VA facility. - Veterans who are homeless or at risk for homelessness should contact the National Call Center for Homeless Veterans atÂ 877-4AID-VET (877-424-3838). - Visit theÂ VA Homeless Programs websiteÂ to learn about housing initiatives and other programs for Veterans exiting homelessness. - For more stories like these, visit theÂ HPO websiteÂ andÂ subscribe to the Homeless Programs Office newsletterÂ to receive monthly updates about programs and supportive services for Veterans experiencing or at risk of homelessness. - Topics in this story More Stories Caregivers can play a crucial role in suicide prevention, offering support to Veterans in your care. If youâre a Veteran enrolled in VA health care, you now have access to VA tele-emergency care â should you need it â through VA Health Connect Veteran Jeff Cook has experienced the power of immersive technology and is telling his story in hopes of helping other Veterans.
### https://news.va.gov/tag/transgender/


Transgender [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://news.va.gov/tag/transgender/)

> Transgender Day of Visibility is observed March 31. This observance […] For Veterans in gender transition, finding their voice can be enhanced with the help of specially trained speech-language pathologists. TA-NET is a therapeutic approach for Gender Diverse and Transgender Veterans that puts emphasis on sharing personal narrative holistically. Retired Army Col. Sheri Swokowski is the highest-ranking, out transgender U.S. Veteran in the United States. Today, she advocates for LGBTQ+ Veterans. LGBT Veterans choose to receive health care through VA because they find inclusive and affirming quality care from supportive providers. Every facility has an LGBT Veteran care coordinator. Navy Veteran Marilu Fanning and Army Veteran Dylan Liebhart have followed different journeys through life. Different upbringings, generations and military services. Yet, the two share a passion for helping fellow Veterans receive the care theyâve earned. They have advice for fellow LGBT and Related Identities Veterans. VA North Texas is committed to serving the needs of its LGBTQ population. There are approximately one million lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer/or questioning (LGBTQ) Veterans in the US. Earlier this week, Secretary Denis McDonough ordered a review of VA policies to ensure that transgender Veterans and employees do not face discrimination on the basis of their gender identity and expression. Paula M. Neira believes that her greatest service for the country and the Navy has come after she put away her uniform. Before she became a nurse, lawyer and advocate, she was an officer in the Navy. Neira had to sacrifice her naval career when she accepted that her gender identity didnât align with the sex assigned at birth. For 39 years, not a single soul knew of her secret. Finally, free to be who she has always longed to be, Army Veteran Francis Garcia is now able to express her true and pure self. âSince I was very young, I had no idea what being transgender was, all I know is I would go to bed and ask God â God wake me up as a girl," Garcia said. "I would pray and pray and wake up each time as not a girl."
### https://news.va.gov/118943/vas-mission-to-better-serve-all/


VA’s mission to better serve all [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://news.va.gov/118943/vas-mission-to-better-serve-all/)

> VA has renewed its focus to foster a safe and inclusive environment for all Veterans and employees. VA’s new mission statement reflects a new VA that is intent on creating an environment where all have equitable opportunities to thrive, including women, LGBTQ+ individuals and underserved populations. “To fulfill President Lincoln’s promise to care for those who have served in our nation’s military and for their families, caregivers, and survivors.” This statement reflects the changing needs of VA’s evolving population. VA serves more minority populations, LGBTQ+ individuals and women Veterans now than ever before. “Approximately 25% of the people we serve are women, and we need to bring that 25% home,” said Toni Hightower, Army Veteran and acting team lead at VA’s Center for Women Veterans. As a former VA police officer and member of the LGBTQ+ community, Hightower’s experience has provided her with a well-rounded view toward improving the cultural health of VA. “Women need to stand up and be heard” “There is so much work that has been done and still so much more to do,” Hightower added. “The life of every Veteran matters. We don’t get the same equality as men. Women need to stand up and be heard. We count. We matter. We can only do that if we unite and start empowering one another.” Empowering all who served includes providing a space for all Veterans who identify as female and educating others at VA about the importance of equitable care. Hightower has led LGBTQ+ webinars that focus on learning more about transgender Veterans and understanding how to use pronouns to show respect and reduce the number of harassment incidents. In a recent podcast interview conducted by McKinsey & Company, diversity, equity, and inclusion expert Diana Ellsworth said that “Every time we use inclusive language, we give a positive signal. This is a safe environment where LGBTQ+ employees are respected and valued.” “If we take time to understand each other.” Transgender men and women are twice as likely to hear sexist jokes about people of their gender and three times more likely to feel they can’t talk about their life outside of work. VA’s renewed mission statement emphasizes the commitment to support all the heroes who have served our country, regardless of race, gender, background, sexual orientation, religion, zip code or identity. “We have to empower people to learn,” Hightower said. “It’s my thought that I can plant the seed for change. I want people outside of my box to grow to think different. If we take time to understand each other, we can really make VA a place of belonging for all Veterans and employees.” White Ribbon VA is a national call to action that encourages individuals to commit to eliminating sexual harassment, sexual assault and domestic violence throughout the organization. The White Ribbon VA pledge encourages everyone to commit to making a change and to stand against violence. “I think White Ribbon VA is a good start,” said Hightower. “It’s representative of the issue. It’s great knowing VA sees the problem and that we are doing something about it.” Document your pledge and show your support for a harassment-free VA by committing to the White Ribbon VA Pledge. Stand up against unwanted behavior today and be a part of VA’s new mission to care for all those who have served, and create a safer, more welcoming environment for all. Topics in this story Link Disclaimer This page includes links to other websites outside our control and jurisdiction. VA is not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of non-VA Web sites. We encourage you to review the privacy policy or terms and conditions of those sites to fully understand what information is collected and how it is used. More Stories Caregivers can play a crucial role in suicide prevention, offering support to Veterans in your care. If you’re a Veteran enrolled in VA health care, you now have access to VA tele-emergency care – should you need it – through VA Health Connect Veteran Jeff Cook has experienced the power of immersive technology and is telling his story in hopes of helping other Veterans.
### https://news.va.gov/117594/visibility-matters-transgender-her-story/


Visibility matters: Transgender Veteran shares her story [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://news.va.gov/117594/visibility-matters-transgender-her-story/)

> According to Disabled American Veterans, there are approximately 1 million LGBTQ+ Veterans in the United States. VA strives to be a national leader in the health and well-being for LGBTQ+ Veterans and to deliver care that fits each individualâs unique needs. VAâs National Center for Healthcare Advancement and Partnerships (HAP) works with the LGBTQ+ program to support diversity and inclusion-driven initiatives for all Veterans. A VA team which includes HAP is collaborating to support VAâs 2021 promise to expand gender-affirming care for transgender and gender-diverse Veterans. âOur mission to provide exceptional care to Veterans” “Increasing awareness about the issues faced by LGBTQ+ Veterans is a fundamental aspect of our mission to provide exceptional care to Veterans,” said Dr. Jamie Davis, VA health system specialist. To help shed light on a variety of perspectives and gain a deeper understanding of the diverse needs and experiences of the Veteran community, HAP interviewed Deedee Lynn Fulcher, a facilitator for the Transgender Care Coordination Integrated Project Team Veteran Experience Workstream. Fulcher is a Marine Corps Veteran and a transgender woman who served for 12 years. Fulcher knows first-hand about the challenges the LGBTQ+ community faces in their personal lives, in the workplace, and in their access to health care. In her story, she shares how she found support in her VA community. Q: What is your background/story? A: I grew up in a very conservative family. I was named after my dad, David Lynn Fulcher Sr., who was my hero. I am the oldest of three kids. Living in the country, we were a very close family. As I grew up, at age five or six, I knew something was different about me. To prove how macho I was, I got into sports: baseball, football, wrestling, cross country running, basketball, tennis, golf, showed horses and raced motorcycles. I was very good at all of them. I was a champion in several of them and that was my way into the popular crowd in school. One year, I even wrestled for the Marine Corp team. Q: What is your military background? A: I joined the military because I wanted to serve my country and to get out on my own. And the Marines were the best. I served in the Marine Corps from 1980 to 1992. I was a radio operator, maintenance manager, radio chief, embarkation NCO and communication chief. After 7.5 years, I moved into aviation and worked on Huey and Cobra helicopters. I served during Beirut, Granada and Desert Storm. Q: What was your overall experience as an LGBTQ+ person in the military? A: When I served, you did not talk about or let it be known that you were gay or transgender, or you would be kicked out of the service. Q: Did you have any support along the way? A: Since I didnât transition until I was 52, I did not have much support. I kept it hidden until I had to face it and deal with it.Â The place I found help and support was VA. My therapist found that VA had a transgender support group, which I thought would be the last place I could get help. I made an appointment to see a therapist and attend the support group. To my surprise, there were several transgender Veterans in the support group and I was welcome with open arms.Â I found VA offered a lot of care and support for transgender Veterans. I applied at VA and was hired as a medical support administrative. I had a few co-workers who didnât know about working with a transgender person, but after a while, and by answering questions they had, they were very supportive. My coworkers are my extended family. They have been there for me during tough times. Q: How has the military changed over the years, and have you seen any progress? A: It has definitely changed. Now the people in the military can be more open about their sexuality and gender, although it is still looked down on in some units. They can get medical care that was not offered when I was in. Also, I think people are noticing that as long as you can do the job, it doesnât matter what your gender or sexuality is. VA has come a long way in the past few years from where it was when I got out of the Marines. Q: What do you enjoy about your current role? A: I started working at VA six years ago, after I lost the job I had for 16.5 years because I came out as transgender. I am member of the LGBTQ+ committee here in Southeast Louisiana VA. I am also co-leader and facilitator of the TCC-Veteran Experience Work Group. I probably get the most enjoyment in helping my fellow Veterans and helping to make changes for the better at VA. For more information on the VHA LGBTQ+ health program, visit https://www.patientcare.va.gov/LGBT/. HAP facilitates partnerships that support Veterans and their families with quality health care. For more information about HAP, visitÂ https://www.va.gov/HEALTHPARTNERSHIPS/index.asp. Topics in this story Link Disclaimer This page includes links to other websites outside our control and jurisdiction. VA is not responsible for the privacy practices or the content of non-VA Web sites. We encourage you to review the privacy policy or terms and conditions of those sites to fully understand what information is collected and how it is used. More Stories East Bay Veteran Community Partnership and patient advocates work together to help Veterans navigate the VA health care systems. VA is providing innovative solutions for Veterans with cancer, including using 3D printing to create boluses. Caregivers can play a crucial role in suicide prevention, offering support to Veterans in your care.
## [MIRECC / CoE](www.mirecc.va.gov): ~24 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://www.mirecc.va.gov/VISN16/newsletter/communique-vol24-issue4-article1.asp


Newsletter | Fall 2022 | South Central MIRECC [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.mirecc.va.gov/VISN16/newsletter/communique-vol24-issue4-article1.asp)

> MIRECC / CoE Newsletter | Fall 2022 | South Central MIRECC Interview with Dr. Michael Kauth, LGBTQ+ Health Program Executive Director Michael Kauth, PhD, Executive Director, LGBTQ+ Health Program, Population Health, Office of Patient Care Services, Veterans Health Administration (VHA) Q. Congratulations on your appointment as the Executive Director of the LGBTQ+ Health Program! You’ve been Co-Director of the program since 2012, but what will some of your responsibilities be in this new position? Thank you! Although I’ve been working part-time (with Dr. Jillian Shipherd) as director of the LGBTQ+ Health Program, this is really a new position, among several others. This position is an appointment within the Senior Executive Service (SES). I oversee two health care policies, the program budget, and 13 staff who will manage most of the day-to-day operational functions of the program. My role is to be the “face” of the program and the primary point of contact on lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and other (LGBTQ+) Veteran health for VA senior leaders in VA Central Office. My role is to promote a vision of LGBTQ+ Veteran health care across the enterprise and implement that vision. Some people may wonder why VA needs an LGBTQ+ Health Program. Whatever one’s beliefs about LGBTQ+ people, it is undeniable that this country has had a long history of stigmatizing and discriminating against LGBTQ+ people. This includes decades of banning military service of people with LGBTQ+ identities, which has only recently changed. These bans on military service failed to prevent LGBTQ+ people from serving their country. These bans meant that LGBTQ+ personnel had to serve in secret to maintain their careers. This left LGBTQ+ personnel vulnerable to harassment and assault with little recourse. If they complained, they risked being discharged. This history means that VA has a high hurdle to overcome to make LGBTQ+ Veterans feel safe and supported at the VA. This history and current stigma regarding LGBTQ+ people have negative health effects. Sexual and gender minority identities are social determinants of health. Having a minoritized sexual or gender identity influences how one thinks about their health, their health behaviors and their access to health care. The outcome is often higher rates of negative health outcomes for LGBTQ+ people compared to heterosexual and cisgender people. My aim and VA’s aim is to provide high quality, equitable care for all Veterans, including LGBTQ+ Veterans. We’re not doing that now, and that’s why VA needs an LGBTQ+ Health Program. Q. What impacts are you excited to have on Veteran health care by your appointment at this level? One major accomplishment that is happening already is the addition of data fields for gender identity and sexual orientation identity. This information is important for personalized health care, but without data fields, the information, if it is collected at all, is lost in a Progress Note. Archiving this information allows other providers to use this information to provide affirming clinical care and not have every provider ask every Veteran at every visit about their gender identity and sexual orientation. What is more, having this data allows VA to “count” the LGBTQ+ Veteran population in VHA and better understand their health care utilization and outcomes. Right now, VA does not know how many LGBTQ+ Veterans are enrolled in VA. VA cannot know whether LGBTQ+ Veterans are experiencing health disparities compared to non-LGBTQ+ Veterans. But we soon will. The gender identity field has been visible in VistA/CPRS for almost a year, and nearly 2 million Veterans have had this information entered in their health record. The sexual orientation identity field will be fully launched by September 30 and already more than 40,000 Veterans have had this information entered in their health record. There are lots of other exciting changes, but being able to identify our LGBTQ+ Veteran population is a huge accomplishment. You started your VA career as a clinical psychologist 30 years ago, providing care in diverse areas including behavioral medicine, infectious disease, and PTSD, as well as contributing to the knowledge base of these subjects and others through research and publishing. Did you imagine that a position like this would be in your future when you started your career? I did not! I’ve always been interested in sexuality and sexual health. These areas of health were not well-supported when I started in VA. However, I persistently advocated for a greater focus on sexuality and sexual health in VA because it’s relevant to Veterans and consistent with good health care. Slowly, more people have recognized these gaps in care. Even after Dr. Shipherd and I leveraged our positions as subject matter experts to form a small LGBTQ+ program, I did not imagine there would ever be a formal program office with an executive director. For 10 years, we argued for funds and positions on an organizational chart. Finally, last year the Office of Patient Care Services and VA leadership approved our boldest and most ambitious proposal yet. Q. You’ve been with the SC MIRECC since it was funded in 1998. Early on you took on the roles of Co-Director and Associate Director for Education and have been a major contributor to our success for more than 20 years. What are a couple of your fondest memories from working with this group? I credit the SC MIRECC with positioning me to work at a national level. I have many fond memories of working in the MIRECC. I remember our first face-to-face meeting in Little Rock the year we were funded. It was so exciting to be there and plan the future. The MIRECCs were innovative centers that developed new knowledge and worked to implement this knowledge in routine clinical practice. This was a new concept at the time. I particularly cherish memories of celebrating each of our MIRECC funding renewals with the leadership team and investigators. When the SC MIRECC was funded in 1998, some people doubted that we would even get renewed. We proved them wrong several times over! Q. Are there people you would like to recognize for impacting your career or helping you get where you are today? Absolutely! There are many, but here is a short list. I am grateful to Dr. Greer Sullivan, the first SC MIRECC Director, for seeing my educational intervention background in my CV and selecting me to lead the MIRECC Education Core. Greer continually challenged me to grow professionally. When Greer took a sabbatical, she appointed me as acting director, which I enjoyed. When she returned, Greer made me the Co-Director in addition to my Education role. I am also very grateful to Dr. Tom Horvath, who was Chief of Mental Health in VA Central Office and awarded initial funding to the SC MIRECC. Tom has always been a great supporter. He helped orchestrate my transfer to Houston after Hurricane Katrina. Finally, I tremendously appreciate the professional support and friendship of Dr. Mark Kunik, the second SC MIRECC Director. We have had great fun running the SC MIRECC and fun outside of the MIRECC too. I especially appreciate Mark’s willingness to let me follow my passions, while meeting my SC MIRECC obligations, by supporting my part-time work leading the fledgling LGBT program 10 years ago. Q. Thanks for your interview! Is there anything you want our readers to know that I haven’t asked you? I am so proud of the success of the SC MIRECC, which grew out of an idea on paper. I am also proud that the VA is supporting equitable health care for LGBTQ+ Veterans. Lastly I want to tell folks that despite the huge, complex bureaucracy of the VA there remains many opportunities for passionate, persistent people to implement big change in the system for the betterment of Veterans. Last updated: November 10, 2022 In this Issue — Interview with Dr. Michael Kauth — Meet the New SC MIRECC Fellows — Consulting with MIDAS — DEI Calendar of Events — Anchor Site Highlights — New Clinical Education Resources — Publication Highlights — Pilot Grant Opportunity SC MIRECC Menu Home About Leadership & Staff Anchor Sites Research Research Training Houston Fellowship Little Rock Fellowship Fellows Grant Writing Education CBOC Grand Rounds BEST Program Education Products New and Featured Products by Topic Order Clinical Care Newsletter News Flash PACERS Diversity (DEI) Black Veterans Older Veterans Women Veterans
### https://www.mirecc.va.gov/VISN16/newsletter/communique-vol24-issue2-article6.asp


Newsletter | Spring 2022 | South Central MIRECC [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.mirecc.va.gov/VISN16/newsletter/communique-vol24-issue2-article6.asp)

> MIRECC / CoE Newsletter | Spring 2022 | South Central MIRECC Highlights from Our Anchor Sites Our affiliates in Houston, Little Rock, New Orleans, and VISN 17 work hard to promote mental health education, research, and treatment locally and nationally. Here are some highlights of their accomplishments over the past three months. Houston Drs. Natalie Hundt and Terri Fletcher Awarded Grant for OCD Intervention Drs. Hundt and Fletcher’s new grant, “Exposure and Response Prevention to Improve Functioning in Veterans with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD),” was funded by VA Rehabilitation Research and Development. Their four-year randomized controlled trial will compare outcomes of exposure and response prevention to those of a control condition among Veterans with OCD. They will also examine whether Veterans' functioning, quality of life, and OCD symptoms differ between the arms of the trial. Dr. Mark Kunik Received BCM Clark Award and Published Book Review Article Congratulations to Dr. Kunik, who received the Baylor College of Medicine Clark Award in recognition of professionalism and community service. Dr. Melissa Jones Received Career Development Award Dr. Jones, a former SC MIRECC Fellow, was awarded a VA Rehabilitation Research and Development Career Development Award titled “Pimavanserin for Insomnia in Veterans with Post-traumatic Stress Disorder.” Dr. Kunik is serving as a secondary mentor on the grant. Little Rock Dr. Geoff Curran Received Endowed Chair at UAMS Congratulations to Dr. Curran, who was formally invested as the recipient of the Endowed Chair in Pharmacy Practice Innovation in April. This distinguished honor was invested in the University of Arkansas for Medicine College of Pharmacy. Learn MoreDr. Rajinder (Sonia) Singh Receives Outstanding Research Achievement Award Congratulations to Dr. Singh for receiving the VA Psychology Outstanding Research Achievement Award at Central Arkansas Veterans Healthcare System. Her research includes a a program evaluation of the national LGBTQ+ (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer with the + including identities beyond LGBTQ) Veteran Care Coordinator program in VA. The goals of this grant are to analyze existing program data, collect additional qualitative data related to barriers and facilitators of LGBTQ+ Veteran Care Coordinators’ abilities to carry out their task, and design an implementation toolkit that includes best practices for LGBTQ+ Veteran Care Coordinators. Dr. Singh is also completing an evaluation of provider and LGBTQ+ Veteran perspectives of LGBTQ+ affirming care within VISN 16. Dr. Eva Woodward Accepted to SBM Diversity Institute for Emerging Leaders Dr. Woodward was selected to the 2022 cohort for the Society of Behavioral Medicine’s (SBM) Diversity Institute for Emerging Leaders. The purpose of this year-long program is to help early-career SBM members from diverse backgrounds or those who are working with those from underrepresented populations develop into equitable and thoughtful leaders by fostering a deep understanding of the principles of diversity and inclusion. New Orleans Drs. Laurel Franklin and Chelsea Ennis Begin Project to Target Psychosocial Functioning Associated with PTSD Drs. Franklin and Ennis are Site-PIs on “Personalizing Cognitive Processing Therapy with a Case Formulation Approach to Intentionally Target Impairment in Psychosocial Functioning Associated with PTSD” (PI: Tara Galovski). The project compares the relative effectiveness of case-formulation-cognitive processing therapy (CF-CPT) to cognitive processing therapy (CPT) in improving Veterans’ psychosocial functioning quality of life and well-being as well as core PTSD and depression symptoms. It will determine the effectiveness of CF-CPT as compared to CPT in improving Veterans’ treatment engagement; and evaluate CF- CPT’s indirect impact on Veterans’ psychosocial functioning, quality of life, well-being and PTSD/depression as influenced by improvement in the idiosyncratic clinical challenges targeted by the case formulation. Dr. Gala True Presented at CPG for Suicide Prevention Webinar Series Dr. True’s team presented on “Partnering with Firearm Retailers to Promote Temporary Out-of-Home Firearm Storage” at the Rocky Mountain MIRECC’s Clinical Practice Guideline for Suicide Prevention Webinar Series in January. The team was joined by one of the community partners on their VISION project, a Veteran and firearm retailer. View Recording The work of VISION was also highlighted in an article about pending legislation in Louisiana that would remove some of the barriers to firearm retailers partnering on suicide prevention efforts. View ArticleDr. Mary Shapiro Published First-Author Article on Pain and Posttraumatic Stress Among Women with History of Military Sexual Trauma Dr. Shapiro, a recent hire at our New Orleans anchor site and first author, published the article “Pain and posttraumatic stress: Associations Among Women Veterans with a History of Military Sexual Trauma” in Psychological Trauma: Theory, Research, Practice, and Policy. Dr. Shapiro is being trained by Dr. Gala True, who also a co-author along with Drs. Laurel Franklin (Site Leader) and Amanda Raines. Access ArticleLast updated: September 16, 2022 In this Issue — SC MIRECC Welcomes New Co-Director — Grant Writing Scholars 2022 — 2022 BEST Fellows — DEI Corner: Adding Pronouns and VHA ODEI Inclusivity Campaign — DEI Calendar of Events — Anchor Site Highlights — New Clinical Education Resources — Publication Highlights — Pilot Grant Opportunity — MIDAS Consultation Service SC MIRECC Menu Home About Leadership & Staff Anchor Sites Research Research Training Houston Fellowship Little Rock Fellowship Fellows Grant Writing Education CBOC Grand Rounds BEST Program Education Products New and Featured Products by Topic Order Clinical Care Newsletter News Flash PACERS Diversity (DEI) Black Veterans Older Veterans Women Veterans
### https://www.mirecc.va.gov/VISN16/newsletter/communique-vol24-issue1-article3.asp


Newsletter | Winter 2022 | South Central MIRECC [[Wayback Machine]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.mirecc.va.gov/VISN16/newsletter/communique-vol24-issue1-article3.asp)

> MIRECC / CoE Newsletter | Winter 2022 | South Central MIRECC DEI Corner This month, we debut a new series that highlights diversity, equity and inclusion in the work of our investigators. Investigator: Derrecka Boykin, PhD Site: Houston Project 1 – Tailoring a Community Partnered Mental Health Intervention to the Needs of Rural Minority Women Veterans: This project seeks to expand an existing community-based program, Supportive Outreach and Reintegration (SOAR), to enhance engagement of rural and racial/ethnic minority women Veterans in mental health treatment. SOAR leverages community partnerships with VA and Veteran-serving organizations to identify distressed rural Veterans and engage them in a 1-day Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT)-based workshop (developed by Lilian Dindo, PhD). The project is funded through the VHA Office of Rural Health – Iowa City. Project 2 – Use of a Peer Intervention to Improve Access among Rural Women Veterans with Psychological Distress and Unmet Social Needs: This project focuses on adapting a peer-support intervention to connect rural, racially/ethnically diverse women Veterans with needed mental health and social services in VA and the surrounding community. This multi-site project is led by investigators at the Center for Innovations in Healthcare at the Syracuse VA. The project is funded through the VHA Office of Rural Health – White River Junction. Investigator: Darius Dawson, PhD Site: Houston Project 1 – Examining Racial/Ethnic Minority Veterans’ Access to Mental Health Treatment and Research: This project seeks to understand barriers to treatment and research access among underserved Veterans. Using a mixed-methods approach, we will expand the parent trial to include surveys assessing sociocultural factors that may influence anxiety symptom presentation and access to mental health care and research across racial/ethnic groups, as well as in-depth qualitative interviews to better understand unique cultural factors that may influence symptoms and access among African American and Hispanic Veterans. Project 2 – Increasing Engagement of African American Veterans in Tobacco Cessation Treatment: This study seeks to identify and describe African American Veterans’ perspectives on engaging in tobacco cessation treatment in VHA to develop a treatment engagement plan. Veterans will describe their views on engaging in behavioral tobacco cessation treatment, as well as use of telehealth treatment and technology to increase engagement. The plan developed based on Veteran perspectives will be reviewed by African American Veterans, community members, and VHA stakeholders. Project 3 – Providers’ Perspectives on the Impact of Culture in the Diagnosis and Recognition of Anxiety: This project seeks to examine providers' perspectives on how culture impacts recognition and diagnosis of anxiety. The goal is to identify the degree to which cultural factors play a role in diagnosis and conceptualization of anxiety among outpatient mental health providers in VHA. Investigator: Jan Lindsay, PhD Site: Houston Project 1 – Rural Native Veteran Health Care Navigator Program (RNV-HCNP) Development: The Rural Native Veteran Health Care Navigator Program was developed to improve health outcomes of rural Native Veterans. Under the program, Health Care Patient Navigators will help Rural Native Veteran patients overcome health care access barriers by engaging in patient health care navigation with VA, VHA, Indian Health Service, federally recognized tribes, local communities, and other state and federal agencies. Navigators will serve as an educational resource to help these patients better understand the health care system. Project 2 – Increasing Access to Mental Health Services for Rural Native Veterans through VA Video Connect (VVC): A core project team composed of VA Office of Rural Health staff with expertise in VVC implementation is engaging local VA Medical Center stakeholders to provide training, education, and ongoing evaluation for the delivery of “culturally -centered” telemental health treatments to rural Native Veterans from their sites. Project 3 – Suicide Prevention Toolbox for Rural Native Veterans: This project seeks to develop a mobile health toolbox to support American Indian and Alaska Native Veterans in healing from trauma and address mental health issues, including suicide prevention, in partnership with a team from the National Center for Posttraumatic Stress Disorder with expertise in the development of mobile mental health applications for Veterans. The goal is to develop a mobile app that can be disseminated to rural Native Veterans and the general public through an existing VA mobile app. Design and testing will occur in FY21-FY22 and development and production in FY23. Investigator: Rajinder Sonia Singh, PhD Site: Little Rock Project 1 – Evaluating VA’s Nationwide LGBTQ+ Veteran Care Coordinator Program: Every VA must have at least one LGBTQ+ (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer with the + representing additional gender and sexual diverse identities) Veteran Care Coordinator who is tasked to be a champion of LGBTQ+ Affirming care within their facility. The goals of this program evaluation are to analyze existing program data, collect additional qualitative data related to barriers and facilitators of LGBTQ+ Veteran Care Coordinators’ abilities to carry out their task, and design an implementation toolkit that includes best practices for LGBTQ+ Veteran Care Coordinators. These results will inform how to improve implementation of the LGBTQ+ Veteran Care Coordinator Program. Project 2 – Evaluating Provider and LGBTQ+ Veteran Perspectives of LGBTQ+ Affirming Care: This project plans to assess providers, LGBTQ+ Veteran Care Coordinators, and LGBTQ+ Veterans about their thoughts related to providing or receiving LGBTQ+ affirming care within VISN 16. The goal of this project is to assess the feasibility and acceptability of recruitment and measure method methods, document LGBTQ+ Veteran Care Coordinator roles and experiences, and document provider and LGBTQ+ Veteran experiences of care. Investigator: Eva Woodward, PhD Site: Little Rock Project 1 – Adapting Safety Planning Intervention for Veterans to Be Delivered Outside Healthcare Settings in Rural Arkansas: In this study, we are using scientific methods for cultural adaptations of interventions, implementation science, and community based participatory research (CBPR) to focus on rural Veteran suicide prevention. I am the co-principal investigator on this study with community principal investigator Rae Brown (rural Veteran CEO of Arkansas Freedom Fund, Veteran community organization). Our community-academic partnership is comprised of an interdisciplinary team of community members who are Veterans living in rural Arkansas and members of Veteran community organization, Arkansas Freedom Fund, and research team members. Community and academic partners on our team have jointly decided to focus on adapting an existing effective suicide prevention intervention (Safety Planning Intervention) to be delivered using a peer-to-peer model (Veteran to Veteran) in rural Arkansas community organizations to reach rural Veterans outside healthcare settings. Project 2 – Veteran Engagement Implementation Strategies to Prevent Rural Veteran Suicide: This VA Career Development Award is building my expertise in healthcare implementation research and health equity through formal training and application of knowledge through three small-scale research studies. In the research studies, our team is developing and piloting methods to engage rural VA patients in selecting and tailoring implementation strategies to implement Safety Planning Intervention. Rural VA patients represent a marginalized group related to suicide and mental health care—they experience greater suicide and lack of equitable access to mental health care compared to urban VA patients. Therefore, methods refined in this research may generalize to other marginalized patients in healthcare settings and will innovate implementation science to increase health equity. My mentors are Drs. JoAnn Kirchner, Sara Landes, Leslie Hausmann, and Cathleen Willging. Project 3 – Identifying Capacity Needs among Implementation Scientists to Conduct Equity-Focused Dissemination & Implementation: This small workgroup of individuals inside and outside VA conducted a quantitative online survey across the U.S. of implementation researchers needs and skills to conduct equity-focused dissemination and implementation research. A manuscript of this work is being reviewed for publication, "Researchers have high motivation but low knowledge, skills, and opportunities to conduct equity-oriented dissemination and implementation research: A cross-sectional survey" (Authors: A Baumann, EN Woodward, RS Singh, P Adsul, RC Shelton). Project 4 – Mentoring and building capacity in DEI (also by those who have lived experience with marginalization): This is a research lab in an interdisciplinary VA research center focused on diversity, equity and inclusion. First, we are focused on improving equitable healthcare to ensure the best treatments are delivered to patients who need it most. Second, we are focused on enhancing workforce capacity in who we train and how we train to dismantle harmful structures that disempower people from reaching their full potential (Project includes Dr. Rajinder Sonia Singh). Last updated: January 28, 2022 In this Issue — Affiliate Profile: Dr. Joshua Hamer — Meet the SCMIRECC-IQuESt-CeMHOR DEI Committee — DEI Corner — DEI Calendar of Events — Anchor Site Highlights — New Clinical Education Resources — Publication Highlights — Pilot Grant Opportunity — MIDAS Consultation Service SC MIRECC Menu Home About Leadership & Staff Anchor Sites Research Research Training Houston Fellowship Little Rock Fellowship Fellows Grant Writing Education CBOC Grand Rounds BEST Program Education Products New and Featured Products by Topic Order Clinical Care Newsletter News Flash PACERS Diversity (DEI) Black Veterans Older Veterans Women Veterans