



# [af.mil](af.mil): ~48 pages censored since 1/20/25

## [Air Force Materiel Command](www.afmc.af.mil): ~48 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://www.afmc.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/3051176/commentary-lgbtq-pride-month-the-fight-for-respect-and-dignity-is-ongoing/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.afmc.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/3051176/commentary-lgbtq-pride-month-the-fight-for-respect-and-dignity-is-ongoing/)HILL AIR FORCE BASE, Utah -- June is LGBTQ+ Pride Month, a celebration of how lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer Americans have strengthened the country. This year’s theme across the Department of Defense is: “All Together” The fight for respect and dignity in the LGBTQ+ community has been ongoing for decades: From the Stonewall Riots in New York in 1969, to today’s social revolution for equality, we have seen what progression looks like. We have seen where we started, and what it has taken for the LGBTQ+ community to gain a foothold in the mountainous climb for rights. Without victimizing our own community, it has been a waiting game that spans over a time period of decades, married with protests, political action, court cases, prevention of violent/non-violent discriminatory acts, and best of all, lives saved. And it has all been made possible by the advocates and activists that were [and are] passionate about doing one thing: elevating pride. Over the years, the concept “activism” has taken on many forms, being the catalyst in the fight for equality. However, it has been within recent years that there has been a decline in said activism. And especially in our current day and age, activism for social progress has taken a backseat due to the negative stigma that it has [unfortunately] been slapped with. Anymore, protests are synonymous with violence and extremism, the political pull that the LGBTQ+ community has gripped tightly onto has been eclipsed by special interests that view our community as nothing more than an after-thought, and we seem to be retrograding back to a time when discrimination is getting its second breath. To throttle back on activism is to kill the speed of progression, to oppress the future. As history has proven time and time again, social progression is inevitable. Through Women’s Suffrage, the Civil Rights Movement led by Martin Luther King, Jr., the legalization of inter-racial marriage, the repeal of Don’t Ask Don’t Tell, equal representation for the disabled, the Women’s March, and the fight for the transgender community (just to name a few), the betterment of society, and the benefit of the future has always been the end-goal. It is for this reason that activism is so vital and essential for everyone, not just the communities directly affected by these movements. Without the revolutionary act of activism, injustice and prejudice would fan the flames of hard-hitting misrepresentation, hate, inequality, exclusion, and violence – women wouldn’t be able to hold official and executive positions in high institutions; individuals with disabilities would still be viewed as incompetent, placated, and paid less in the workplace than their non-disabled counterparts; our present-day gender revolution would not exist; racial segregation would be a normality; the fight for equal pay for all genders would have been snuffed out before it even began; and the LGBTQ+ community would still be frowned upon and viewed as a mere unfortunate human deviation of society. As individuals of the Hill AFB Pride Committee, we have seen what injustice looks like, and what it can do to polarize and disrupt social progression. We have come to realize long before now, that injustice doesn’t have a name, a face, a socio-economic status, a skin color, an age, or gender. However, what we have come realize is that through this revolutionary act of activism, we are enabled to end hatred and social stagnation. We are here as advocates, for those out there who feel as though they don’t have a voice. We are here as a community that you can lean on for support, or perhaps for those who fear coming out and being open without repercussions, or being ostracized. We are here to silence the violence. We are here to stay, because above all, we are passionate about reaching the pinnacle of our climb for equality. We are passionate for “Pride, Elevated.”
### https://www.afmc.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/2776885/10th-anniversary-of-dont-ask-dont-tell-repeal/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.afmc.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/2776885/10th-anniversary-of-dont-ask-dont-tell-repeal/)TINKER AIR FORCE BASE, Oklahoma -- The United States military has come a long way in protecting the rights of LGBTQ+ military members over the past 10 years, spurred on with the repeal of Don’t Ask Don’t Tell on Tuesday, September 20, 2011. When the issue was being debated in Congress, LGBTQ+ military advocates were bolstered by research and testimony from the American Psychological Association. Officials from the largest scientific psychological association in America testified that research demonstrated sexual orientation would not impact any aspect of military effectiveness including unit cohesion, morale, recruitment and retention. Testifying to the Senate Armed Services Committee the APA declared that “there are existing data on what happens in the U.S. armed forces when gay and lesbian service members serve openly. The gay ban was functionally suspended during the first Gulf War. There was no evidence of adverse effects on military readiness. In addition, the cohesion and performance of the first Gulf War troops was widely commended.” Another driving factor in ending DADT was public opinion. The US Military was approaching 10 years at war and many Americans did not understand why able bodied dedicated Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Marines were being excluded from serving. Examples were abundant of service members who had been discharged despite stellar military records. At a time when recruiting was suffering this just didn’t make sense. Yet another factor driving the end of DADT was the overall population’s acceptance of LGBTQ+ individuals outside of the military. As more individuals came out, stereotypes were eroding and with them much of the misconception of what LGBTQ+ service members bring to the fight. Old fallacies such as “gay people can be blackmailed” were proven incorrect. Fears that openly gay and lesbian service members would result in an exodus of others from the military also proved incorrect. The repeal of DADT was a step closer to providing rights to those of the LGBTQ+ community. It marks the beginning of a decade of growing acceptance and visibility for community members in the armed forces. Almost four years after, in June 2015, the U.S. Supreme Court made same-sex marriages legal in all 50 states in Obergefell v. Hodges. It wasn’t until the next year, in June 2016, that transgender individuals were allowed to openly serve with their desired gender identity, officially recognizing LGBT service members. In fact, since the repeal of DADT, overall acceptance of same-sex marriage within the US has seen a massive rise from approximately 49 percent in 2011, to over 70 percent today. Happy 10th Anniversary to the enactment of the Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act of 2010 that created a platform for equal footing for lesbian, gay, and bisexual military members who have served proudly for many years. For 10 years, military members of all orientations have been able to serve openly, without legal retribution, attaining acceptance and honor. We give thanks to all Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer military members for serving.
### https://www.afmc.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=13&ModuleId=1731&Article=2209226


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.afmc.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=13&ModuleId=1731&Article=2209226)Celebrating Diversity - June is LGBTQ Pride Month WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE, Ohio – Celebrating and recognizing the diversity of both civilian and service members across the Department of Defense, June is Pride Month. Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer Pride Month was chosen to be recognized in June to commemorate the riots that occurred in June 1969 at the Stonewall Inn in Manhattan, New York. The event, known as Stonewall Riots, became the catalyst for the gay rights movement in the United States and around the world to achieve equal justice and opportunities. Throughout history, LGBTQ Airmen have bravely served and defended their country. Their commitment to service has made the Air Force stronger and the nation safer. Their courage and the sacrifices made along the way with their fellow Airmen add to the inclusivity and rich diversity of the Air Force family. Since the days of lesbian and gay service members having to hide their true identity while serving their country, the Department of Defense has made many strides in promoting equal rights as well as inclusivity for all sexual orientations. The DoD recognizes the equally unwavering dedication of LGBTQ Airmen to serve and protect their country. • In 1993, the Department of Defense issued the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy, a directive prohibiting the U.S. military from barring applicants from service based on their sexual orientation and would not be asked or required to reveal whether they are homosexual. • On June 2, 2000, President Bill Clinton issued Proclamation No. 7316 for the first Gay and Lesbian Pride Month to recognize contributions made by LGBT. • In 2008, Anthony Loverde had been a Staff Sgt. for seven years when he was discharged under the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy after telling his commander that he was gay. In May 2012, he reentered the Air Force becoming the second person and first gay Airman to return to active duty since the DADT policy was repealed. • On December 22, 2010, the DADT Repeal Act became law and was fully implemented of the Act occurred in September 2011 and LGB military members could then serve openly with honor and integrity. • Effective March 27, 2015, the Family and Medical Leave Act extended coverage to all legally married same-sex couples to take FMLA leave to provide care for spouse.
### https://www.afmc.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/3051188/commentary-lgbtq-representation-and-the-military/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.afmc.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/3051188/commentary-lgbtq-representation-and-the-military/)TINKER AIR FORCE BASE, Okla. -- The military has a long standing reputation with the LGBTQ+ community, while the story has a rough beginning, the modern era holds many opportunities and achievements that we have been fighting for the past few decades. The rocky history begins with the need for more military personnel in the advent of WWII and the introduction of vetting people’s sexuality based upon stereotypes during initial enlistment, but if a member were to hide that aspect of themselves only to be found out while already enlisted in the ranks of the US military they would then receive a dishonorable discharge. This practice leads directly to 1982 where a Department of Defense policy was instated to say, “Homosexuality is incompatible with military service.” This led to an average of 1,500 discharges annually. The rationale behind this was that “Gays and Lesbians” were deemed too much of a security risk to keep around. However, in 1988, a joint report between the DOD and the Defense Personnel Security Research and Education Center came to the conclusion that this reasoning had no ground to stand upon. This was the beginning of moving in the right direction, small steps are necessary for big leaps down the line. In 1993, President Bill Clinton signed “Don’t Ask Don’t Tell” into policy. It still barred openly gay individuals from enlisting, but it also prohibited the harassment and “outing” of suspected military members still in the closet. This was where it was left for 17 years. In 2011, President Barack Obama repealed the “Don’t Ask Don’t Tell” policy, allowing members of the U.S. armed services to be open and out while also serving their country. Just a few years later, in 2015, we saw the full federal legalization of gay marriage as well as a statement from the Secretary of Defense announcing that the Military Equal Opportunity policy would now include gay and lesbian service members. Along with this new policy, the Secretary of Defense issued a directive stating that no service member would be allowed to be discharged on the basis of gender identity without it first being routed and approved by the Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness. Even with these strides, we still had many hurdles in front of us. In July 2017, President Donald Trump issued a statement that said “…the United States government will not accept or allow transgender individuals to serve in any capacity in the U.S. Military.” This was done with reference to the potential for increased medical costs that it would take in order to accommodate transgender service members. Moving into December 2017, a federal judge goes against the president’s ban. Then in March 2018, the sitting president recants his statement, and revises it to instead state “transgender persons with a history or diagnosis of gender dysphoria are disqualified from military service except under certain limited circumstances.” This was the policy from 2018-2021, when only five days after taking office, President Joseph Biden signed an executive order to lift the ban on transgender military service members. The order stated that the “All-Volunteer force thrives when it is composed of diverse Americans who can meet the rigorous standards of military service and an inclusive military strengthens our national security.” By the end of that year, the use of pronouns in e-mail signature blocks was authorized by “The Tongue and Quill.” We have come such a long way in a short time, but there is still much work to be done and progress to be made within and around our armed forces to this day. It is only through a message of coming together and understanding one another that we can break down the barriers that separate us and band together to make an even stronger, unified force! Happy Pride!
### https://www.afmc.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=13&ModuleId=1731&Article=3051188


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.afmc.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=13&ModuleId=1731&Article=3051188)Commentary: LGBTQ+ Representation and the military The military has a long standing reputation with the LGBTQ+ community, while the story has a rough beginning, the modern era holds many opportunities and achievements that we have been fighting for the past few decades. The rocky history begins with the need for more military personnel in the advent of WWII and the introduction of vetting people’s sexuality based upon stereotypes during initial enlistment, but if a member were to hide that aspect of themselves only to be found out while already enlisted in the ranks of the US military they would then receive a dishonorable discharge. This practice leads directly to 1982 where a Department of Defense policy was instated to say, “Homosexuality is incompatible with military service.” This led to an average of 1,500 discharges annually. The rationale behind this was that “Gays and Lesbians” were deemed too much of a security risk to keep around. However, in 1988, a joint report between the DOD and the Defense Personnel Security Research and Education Center came to the conclusion that this reasoning had no ground to stand upon. This was the beginning of moving in the right direction, small steps are necessary for big leaps down the line. In 1993, President Bill Clinton signed “Don’t Ask Don’t Tell” into policy. It still barred openly gay individuals from enlisting, but it also prohibited the harassment and “outing” of suspected military members still in the closet. This was where it was left for 17 years. In 2011, President Barack Obama repealed the “Don’t Ask Don’t Tell” policy, allowing members of the U.S. armed services to be open and out while also serving their country. Just a few years later, in 2015, we saw the full federal legalization of gay marriage as well as a statement from the Secretary of Defense announcing that the Military Equal Opportunity policy would now include gay and lesbian service members. Along with this new policy, the Secretary of Defense issued a directive stating that no service member would be allowed to be discharged on the basis of gender identity without it first being routed and approved by the Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness. Even with these strides, we still had many hurdles in front of us. In July 2017, President Donald Trump issued a statement that said “…the United States government will not accept or allow transgender individuals to serve in any capacity in the U.S. Military.” This was done with reference to the potential for increased medical costs that it would take in order to accommodate transgender service members. Moving into December 2017, a federal judge goes against the president’s ban. Then in March 2018, the sitting president recants his statement, and revises it to instead state “transgender persons with a history or diagnosis of gender dysphoria are disqualified from military service except under certain limited circumstances.” This was the policy from 2018-2021, when only five days after taking office, President Joseph Biden signed an executive order to lift the ban on transgender military service members. The order stated that the “All-Volunteer force thrives when it is composed of diverse Americans who can meet the rigorous standards of military service and an inclusive military strengthens our national security.” By the end of that year, the use of pronouns in e-mail signature blocks was authorized by “The Tongue and Quill.” We have come such a long way in a short time, but there is still much work to be done and progress to be made within and around our armed forces to this day. It is only through a message of coming together and understanding one another that we can break down the barriers that separate us and band together to make an even stronger, unified force! Happy Pride!
### https://www.afmc.af.mil/News/Photos/igphoto/2003010898/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.afmc.af.mil/News/Photos/igphoto/2003010898/)Commentary: LGBTQ+ Representation and the military Graphic celebrating Pride Month 2022 at Tinker Air Force Base. (U.S. Air Force illustration by Tech. Sgt. Aaron Shroyer) PHOTO BY: Tech. Sgt. Aaron Shroyer VIRIN: 220526-F-F3233-1001.JPG FULL SIZE: 0.07 MB CAMERA N/A LENS N/A APERTURE N/A No camera details available. IMAGE IS PUBLIC DOMAIN Read More This photograph is considered public domain and has been cleared for release. If you would like to republish please give the photographer appropriate credit. Further, any commercial or non-commercial use of this photograph or any other DoD image must be made in compliance with guidance found at https://www.dimoc.mil/resources/limitations, which pertains to intellectual property restrictions (e.g., copyright and trademark, including the use of official emblems, insignia, names and slogans), warnings regarding use of images of identifiable personnel, appearance of endorsement, and related matters.
### https://www.afmc.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/3552515/commentary-national-coming-out-day/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.afmc.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/3552515/commentary-national-coming-out-day/)Commentary: October 11 is National Coming Out Day. This is a day to celebrate members of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer/Questioning (LGBTQ+) community who choose to live “out and proud” about who they are and who they love. This annual celebration goes back to the 1987 March on Washington for Lesbian and Gay Rights. LGBTQ+ communities across America use this day to remember those who were not able to be open about their LGBTQ+ identity and support others in their own journey. While LGBTQ+ rights have progressed, and more people feel comfortable in their identities in their private lives and at work, it is important to remember that telling others of one’s LGBTQ+ identity, or “coming out” is often a fearful moment. This is different for every LGBTQ+ person, and often it is an experience that happens more than once. Stigmas remain around revealing one’s LGBTQ+ identity in the workplace. A Harvard Business Review study found that 19% of LGBTQ+ employees feared their careers would be ruined by coming out. Seventy percent of those worried about being socially excluded and making their colleagues uncomfortable. However, those who were out in the workplace reported that they were more engaged and more satisfied with their jobs than those who were not. LGBTQ+ inclusion is more important than ever as we seek to recruit younger generations into the military and civilian workforce. In a 2022 Gallup poll, 20.8% of Gen Z and 10.5% of Millennials identified as LGBTQ+. A McKinsey survey found that nearly 40% of respondents had rejected a job offer because the workplace was not inclusive. It is important to understand how we can build an inclusive and respectful workplace for all Airmen. The Air Force Materiel Command LGBTQ+ Initiative Team (LIT) is committed to removing barriers so that AFMC can recruit, retain, and be a model employer for LGBTQ+ Airmen and allies. For anyone struggling with their own coming out or wanting to learn more about how to support someone as they come out at work, the AFMC Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility team can help connect you with your local LIT Member/Employee Resource Group. Please email AFMC.D.I.Workflow@us.af.mil for more information. Note: The views expressed here are those of the author. The appearance of hyperlinks do not constitute endorsement by the Defense Media Activity, the United States Air Force, or the Department of Defense, of the external Web site, or the information, products or services contained therein. References to non-federal entities do not constitute or imply Department of Defense or Air Force endorsement of any company or organization.
### https://www.afmc.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=13&ModuleId=1731&Article=3552515


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.afmc.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=13&ModuleId=1731&Article=3552515)Commentary: National Coming Out Day This annual celebration goes back to the 1987 March on Washington for Lesbian and Gay Rights. LGBTQ+ communities across America use this day to remember those who were not able to be open about their LGBTQ+ identity and support others in their own journey. While LGBTQ+ rights have progressed, and more people feel comfortable in their identities in their private lives and at work, it is important to remember that telling others of one’s LGBTQ+ identity, or “coming out” is often a fearful moment. This is different for every LGBTQ+ person, and often it is an experience that happens more than once. Stigmas remain around revealing one’s LGBTQ+ identity in the workplace. A Harvard Business Review study found that 19% of LGBTQ+ employees feared their careers would be ruined by coming out. Seventy percent of those worried about being socially excluded and making their colleagues uncomfortable. However, those who were out in the workplace reported that they were more engaged and more satisfied with their jobs than those who were not. LGBTQ+ inclusion is more important than ever as we seek to recruit younger generations into the military and civilian workforce. In a 2022 Gallup poll, 20.8% of Gen Z and 10.5% of Millennials identified as LGBTQ+. A McKinsey survey found that nearly 40% of respondents had rejected a job offer because the workplace was not inclusive. It is important to understand how we can build an inclusive and respectful workplace for all Airmen. The Air Force Materiel Command LGBTQ+ Initiative Team (LIT) is committed to removing barriers so that AFMC can recruit, retain, and be a model employer for LGBTQ+ Airmen and allies. For anyone struggling with their own coming out or wanting to learn more about how to support someone as they come out at work, the AFMC Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility team can help connect you with your local LIT Member/Employee Resource Group. Please email AFMC.D.I.Workflow@us.af.mil for more information. Note: The views expressed here are those of the author. The appearance of hyperlinks do not constitute endorsement by the Defense Media Activity, the United States Air Force, or the Department of Defense, of the external Web site, or the information, products or services contained therein. ‚ÄčReferences to non-federal entities do not constitute or imply Department of Defense or Air Force endorsement of any company or organization.
### https://www.afmc.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/3434780/lgbtq-mentoring-event-focuses-on-respect-acceptance/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.afmc.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/3434780/lgbtq-mentoring-event-focuses-on-respect-acceptance/)WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE, Ohio -- The Air Force Materiel Command Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility team hosted a Cross-Cultural Mentoring Panel in conjunction with Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer (LGBTQ+) Pride Month, June 7. Nearly 250 AFMC Airmen and U.S. Space Force Guardians participated in the virtual event. Panel members included Troy McIntosh, Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Reserve Affairs and Airman and Guardian Readiness; Eddie Weaver, Director of Intelligence, Fighter and Advanced Aircraft Directorate, Air Force Life Cycle Management Center; Maj. John Nussbaum, Transportation Working Capital Fund Program Manager, Detachment 9, Scott Air Force Base; Katie Sheets, Electromagnetic Interference and Electromagnetic Compatibility Laboratory Director, Air Force Research Laboratory; and Tech. Sgt. Jenna Farthing, Support Flight Chief, 375th Aeromedical Evacuation Training Squadron, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base. The fight for respect and dignity in the LGBTQ+ community has been ongoing for decades. The different generations, lifestyles and careers represented by the panel reflected that history. Some panelists, like Nussbaum and Sheets, served on active duty during the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” era. Their experiences were different from Farthing, who is a relatively new Airman, and McIntosh who served in a time when it was a great risk to come out. “I hid myself in a big world—it was very cloak and dagger,” said McIntosh. “I focused on doing my job well, because the more awards I won, the less they were looking at my sexual preference.” Overcommitting at work and struggling to find the right work/life balance was familiar to the others on the panel as well. McIntosh was encouraged by his mentors and eventually became comfortable with his own identity. He is now a champion for LGBTQ+ matters at the Pentagon and advocates for others. “It took me 35 years in the Air Force (active duty and civilian) to say out loud that I had a husband,” he said. “I found that we should not assume what others feel, and we should give them the opportunity to know who we really are. We are special, and they should be privileged to know who we are and what we bring to the table.” Mentoring in the LGBTQ+ community is unique. Even if they are not disowned or rejected, LGBTQ+ individuals don’t usually have family and friends who are able to pass on coping skills from shared experiences. Support groups can provide “found families.” “Those ‘found families’ are crucial,” said Farthing. “I was lucky in that my family is supportive, but being a mentor allows me to fill that void for others.” Other panel members reiterated that commitment to mentoring others, even those who are outside of their area of expertise. “We have to be ready to provide whole-of-life mentorship,” said Weaver. “Sometimes I’m called upon to mentor people from other letters of the acronym or to parents and family members of LGBTQ+ members.” Having leaders who are open and accessible about their lifestyle is also important and is something that many of the panel members did not have themselves. “Speak openly about your identity so that people learn its ok to be a leader that has a unique identify and unique interests,” said McIntosh. “The Air Force is made up of individuals. It’s a collective, and people need to see themselves in their leaders to know that they can get there.” Mentors provide more than just sharing of knowledge and experiences. They also provide a listening ear and help in finding helpful resources. “We make ourselves a safe place and then learn more about the other aspects of the larger group community,” added Nussbaum. “That’s something everyone can do.” Treating people with respect and empathy, while providing a listening ear, goes a long way toward ensuring that Airmen can overcome obstacles and do their jobs to the best of their abilities. Weaver makes it a point to assist those with questions to find resources that can help them better understand the LGBTQ+ community and how to communicate effectively with others. “There are many communications available that can be used to gain better understanding on a wide gamut of topics,” said Weaver. “Some of those include talking with diversity champions like those on this panel, contacting the Air Force DEIA program offices, and learning more from the Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation (GLADD) website, the LGBTQ+ Initiative Team or LIT, and the Trevor Project.” The resources are not just for those who are in the LGBTQ+ community. Supervisors, coworkers, and family members can also benefit from learning more. “Supervisors need to learn to respond, and not react when someone comes to them for help,” added Sheets. “If you are not sure what to do or say, take in the information calmly, and respond that you will get back with them. Make sure you do get back with them.” Change is not easy, but AFMC recognizes the value of diversity. It continues efforts to promote acceptance and inclusion through conversations such as this mentoring session. “Getting used to being comfortable with being uncomfortable is important for mentors,” continued Weaver. “Sometimes supervisors and mentors are the only foothold Airmen have to cling to. Compassion and acceptance are the key.” Diversity is more than race, gender, and ethnicity — it means diversity of thought, ability, background, language, culture, and skills. “It’s my personal mission to ensure that all current and future AFMC leaders understand that valuing diversity helps us to unlock the potential we have within the United States Air Force,” said Brianna Russ, AFMC Inclusionary Program Manager. “Diversity of all kinds causes us to be more creative, more innovative, and more agile as a command.” This event was part of the AFMC Cross-Cultural Mentoring series. The next event will focus on Civilian Personnel Action Analysis and will be held July 25, 2 – 3:30 pm ET.
### https://www.afmc.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=13&ModuleId=1731&Article=3815498


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.afmc.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=13&ModuleId=1731&Article=3815498)Mentoring event emphasizes support, “Pride in all who serve” The Air Force Materiel Command hosted a virtual Cross-Cultural Mentoring Panel in conjunction with Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer Plus (LGBTQ+) Pride Month, June 19. The theme of the discussion was, “Pride in all who serve.” “The goal is to have an engaging discussion celebrating the diversity of all Airmen, both military and civilian, and sharing mentoring practices that will help everyone in AFMC succeed in their career goals,” said moderator, Brianna Russ, AFMC Anti-Harassment Program Manager, in opening remarks. The panel included Maj. Jason Vero, Director 316th Wing Plans and Programs, Joint Base Andrews; David Holtzapple, Resource Program Analyst, Headquarters AFMC; Tech. Sgt. Jenna Farthing, Flight Chief, 375th Aeromedical Evacuation Training Squadron, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base; Staff Sgt. Ashley Basham, Contracting Officer, Air Force Sustainment Center, Hill AFB, Utah; and Laura Peliti, Management Analyst, Tinker AFB, Okla. “Because I am out, I am usually the catch-all for anyone who has questions, and they expect me to know everything,” said Peliti on the many identities present on the panel and in the LGBTQ+ community. “I always caveat conversations with telling people to remember I am not representative of every single person in the community. The important thing to know with all identities is that as humans we are growing and evolving, and our understanding of language is growing and evolving too.” Vero was asked what tips he had for mentors trying to set up an environment where mentees would feel comfortable about sharing their LGBTQ+ identities. “You set the stage as you would for any demographic,” he said. “Let people know you care about them as a person.” One technique he mentioned is for new mentors is to provide an intake sheet asking mentees about major life milestones coming up, major stressors, favorite hobbies and activities, and then following that up with a genuine conversation. “I like the subtle way of showing support,” said Vero. Several panelists mentioned using MyVECTOR profiles for seeking or becoming mentors. “MyVECTOR is helpful in career development and in building relationships. Right now, there are lots of life categories such as ‘divorced with kids,’ ‘married without kids,” Peliti said. “I’d like to see them expand the categories to include LGBTQ+ options so that people can find mentors that are of like mind and experience.” Having leaders who are open and supportive is critical for success. “I am comfortable being out, and because of that, I think I have created a safe space for others to approach me and talk,” said Peliti, “I am lucky that my organization is supportive, but not everyone has that in their work area.” Russ put in a plug for adding pronouns to signature blocks. “Adding your pronouns does not mean you are trans or gay, but it does show that you are an ally and a safe place,” she said. All agreed that treating people with respect and empathy, while providing a listening ear, goes a long way towards ensuring that Airmen can overcome obstacles and do their jobs to the best of their abilities. There are many resources that those in the LGBTQ+ community and allies can use to become more informed. Talking with diversity champions like those on the panel, contacting the Air Force Equal Employment Opportunity program offices, and learning about the LGBTQ+ Initiative Team (LIT) are beneficial first steps for supervisors, coworkers, and family members. There are also a variety of courses available on the Department of the Air Force Learning Services site. AFMC recognizes the value of diversity and continues efforts to promote acceptance and inclusion through conversations such as this and other Cross-Cultural Mentoring events. View the event recording: On July 31, AFMC will host a mentoring panel on civilian mentoring, agility and adaptability in the workplace. The Aug. 20 mentoring event will focus generations in the workplace. To learn more about mentoring and about future events, visit https://www.afmc.af.mil/careers/AFMC-Mentoring.
### https://www.afmc.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/3815498/mentoring-event-emphasizes-support-pride-in-all-who-serve/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.afmc.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/3815498/mentoring-event-emphasizes-support-pride-in-all-who-serve/)WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE, Ohio -- The Air Force Materiel Command hosted a virtual Cross-Cultural Mentoring Panel in conjunction with Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer Plus (LGBTQ+) Pride Month, June 19. The theme of the discussion was, “Pride in all who serve.” “The goal is to have an engaging discussion celebrating the diversity of all Airmen, both military and civilian, and sharing mentoring practices that will help everyone in AFMC succeed in their career goals,” said moderator, Brianna Russ, AFMC Anti-Harassment Program Manager, in opening remarks. The panel included Maj. Jason Vero, Director 316th Wing Plans and Programs, Joint Base Andrews; David Holtzapple, Resource Program Analyst, Headquarters AFMC; Tech. Sgt. Jenna Farthing, Flight Chief, 375th Aeromedical Evacuation Training Squadron, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base; Staff Sgt. Ashley Basham, Contracting Officer, Air Force Sustainment Center, Hill AFB, Utah; and Laura Peliti, Management Analyst, Tinker AFB, Okla. “Because I am out, I am usually the catch-all for anyone who has questions, and they expect me to know everything,” said Peliti on the many identities present on the panel and in the LGBTQ+ community. “I always caveat conversations with telling people to remember I am not representative of every single person in the community. The important thing to know with all identities is that as humans we are growing and evolving, and our understanding of language is growing and evolving too.” Vero was asked what tips he had for mentors trying to set up an environment where mentees would feel comfortable about sharing their LGBTQ+ identities. “You set the stage as you would for any demographic,” he said. “Let people know you care about them as a person.” One technique he mentioned is for new mentors is to provide an intake sheet asking mentees about major life milestones coming up, major stressors, favorite hobbies and activities, and then following that up with a genuine conversation. “I like the subtle way of showing support,” said Vero. Several panelists mentioned using MyVECTOR profiles for seeking or becoming mentors. “MyVECTOR is helpful in career development and in building relationships. Right now, there are lots of life categories such as ‘divorced with kids,’ ‘married without kids,” Peliti said. “I’d like to see them expand the categories to include LGBTQ+ options so that people can find mentors that are of like mind and experience.” Having leaders who are open and supportive is critical for success. “I am comfortable being out, and because of that, I think I have created a safe space for others to approach me and talk,” said Peliti, “I am lucky that my organization is supportive, but not everyone has that in their work area.” Russ put in a plug for adding pronouns to signature blocks. “Adding your pronouns does not mean you are trans or gay, but it does show that you are an ally and a safe place,” she said. All agreed that treating people with respect and empathy, while providing a listening ear, goes a long way towards ensuring that Airmen can overcome obstacles and do their jobs to the best of their abilities. There are many resources that those in the LGBTQ+ community and allies can use to become more informed. Talking with diversity champions like those on the panel, contacting the Air Force Equal Employment Opportunity program offices, and learning about the LGBTQ+ Initiative Team (LIT) are beneficial first steps for supervisors, coworkers, and family members. There are also a variety of courses available on the Department of the Air Force Learning Services site. AFMC recognizes the value of diversity and continues efforts to promote acceptance and inclusion through conversations such as this and other Cross-Cultural Mentoring events. View the event recording: On July 31, AFMC will host a mentoring panel on civilian mentoring, agility and adaptability in the workplace. The Aug. 20 mentoring event will focus generations in the workplace. To learn more about mentoring and about future events, visit https://www.afmc.af.mil/careers/AFMC-Mentoring.
### https://www.afmc.af.mil/News/Tag/11741/lgbt-alliance/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.afmc.af.mil/News/Tag/11741/lgbt-alliance/)Sept. 16, 2021 10th Anniversary of Don't Ask Don't Tell Repeal The United States military has come a long way in protecting the rights of LGBTQ+ military members over the past 10 years, spurred on with the repeal of Donâ€™t Ask Donâ€™t Tell on Tuesday, September 20, 2011. When the issue was being debated in Congress, LGBTQ+ military advocates were bolstered by
### https://www.afmc.af.mil/News/Tag/224979/pride-month-events/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.afmc.af.mil/News/Tag/224979/pride-month-events/)June 2, 2022 (Commentary) LGBTQ+ Pride Month: The fight for respect and dignity is ongoing June is LGBTQ+ Pride Month, a celebration of how lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer Americans have strengthened the country.This yearâ€™s theme across the Department of Defense is: â€śAll Togetherâ€ť
### https://www.afmc.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/3060855/rescheduled-lgbtq-pride-month-mentoring-panel-set-for-june-21/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.afmc.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/3060855/rescheduled-lgbtq-pride-month-mentoring-panel-set-for-june-21/)WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE, Ohio -- The Air Force Materiel Command will host a Cross-Cultural Mentoring Panel in conjunction with Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer Pride Month, June 21, at 12:30 p.m. ET. The virtual event, hosted on ZoomGov, is open to all AFMC uniformed and civilian Airmen. This is a reschedule of the June 8 event which was unable to broadcast due to technical difficulties. Paul Waugh, Program Executive Officer for the Mobility and Training Aircraft Directorate, Air Force Life Cycle Management Center, will kick-off the event, which will feature representatives from across the Air Force and industry. Panel members include: - -Maj. Gen. Leah Lauderback, Director of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance, Headquarters, U.S. Space Force - -Stephen Ober, Chief, Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Accessibility, Hanscom AFB - -Charles Bogner, Research Biologist, 711th Human Performance Wing, AFRL - -Capt. Lauren Leet, Air Force Life Cycle Management Center Sharita Figueroa, Program and Management Analyst, Directorate of Personnel, Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center, will serve as moderator at the event. This is the fourth of eight mentoring events scheduled to occur during special observance months throughout 2022. The events are hosted by the AFMC Major Command Barrier Analysis Working Group champions and will focus on issues related to the groups celebrated during the special observance period. The link for the event will be sent to all AFMC personnel via internal communication channels. Personnel can submit questions for the panelists prior to the event by emailing AFMC.A1DC.TrainingNeedsAssessments@us.af.mil. Additional information on AFMC Mentoring and upcoming events is available at https://www.afmc.af.mil/careers/AFMC-Mentoring/.
### https://www.afmc.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=13&ModuleId=1731&Article=3414154


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.afmc.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=13&ModuleId=1731&Article=3414154)Serving with Pride The word ‘pride’ has many definitions; one being “respect and appreciation for oneself and others as members of a group…especially a marginalized group/solidarity with a group based on a shared identity, history, and experience.” Celebrating Pride is about gaining visibility for LGBTQ+ individuals and provides a platform to erase social stigmas which surround the community. Celebrating Pride, at its core, is about human rights. It is a time to champion progress, while still acknowledging the challenges that remain in our quest toward equal rights for all humans, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity. While pride is something to be celebrated all year, the month of June was designated ‘Pride Month’ in remembrance of the Stonewall uprising which occurred in June 1969 and was a pivotal moment in LGBTQ+ history. The first Pride March took place in June 1970, one year after the events of Stonewall. Now, 53 years later, Pride Month has remained a time dedicated to the uplifting of LGBTQ+ voices, celebration of LGBTQ+ culture and the support of LGBTQ+ rights. Throughout military history, the LGBTQ+ community has faced unique challenges, from policies which explicitly banned gay men and women from their ranks, policies where same-sex relationships were criminalized and considered cause for discharge, and policies which classified being gay as a mental illness, therefore disqualifying them from service. In 1993, “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” was enacted, allowing closeted LGBTQ+ people to serve. Under this policy members would not be asked about their sexual orientation but could be discharged for disclosing it. This remained in effect for 18 years, until Congress repealed the policy in 2011, allowing LGBTQ+ members to serve openly. Further barrier removal came in 2013, when spousal and family benefits were extended to same sex married couples in the military and again in 2021 when the ban on transgender individuals’ ability to serve was rescinded. Despite this progress, acceptance of LGBTQ+ members in the military is fairly new. It is important to acknowledge that cultural change takes time, stigmas may linger, and barriers do still exist for these members. I joined the Air Force in July 2017, a still closeted 23-year-old woman. Fast forward six months, I arrived at my first duty station; Minot AFB, ND. It was here my journey of accepting myself and discovering my ‘pride’ truly began. I met my best friend while at Minot AFB and right away he made me feel comfortable, loved, and accepted before I even came out to him. In a word, he knew. It was during that first year in the military I decided to come out to some of my close friends and family; however, I still wasn’t publicly open outside of small circles. To my surprise, the more fellow service members I got to know, the more I felt the love and acceptance everyone deserves, and suddenly found myself surrounded by a military family that had no hesitance to see me for me, allowing me to be my authentic self. That’s not to say I still didn’t have reservations about serving openly. It took me over a year from that point to even say the words out loud “I am gay.” Even when you do “come out,” it’s never just once. In the military, we are constantly on the move. New places, new people, some more accepting than others. However, I can attest a lot of the confidence I have gained in my identity to individuals I have met while serving. It is my hope that every LGBTQ+ service member finds such people in their own lives and within our military family. The DoD has openly recognized the value of diversity within our forces, taking intentional steps to promote inclusion and respect for all individuals who choose to serve. Everyone’s experiences are different, but regardless of our differences, we are all brothers and sisters in arms. Together we are always stronger.
### https://www.afmc.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/3414154/serving-with-pride/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.afmc.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/3414154/serving-with-pride/)HILL AIR FORCE BASE, Utah -- The word ‘pride’ has many definitions; one being “respect and appreciation for oneself and others as members of a group…especially a marginalized group/solidarity with a group based on a shared identity, history, and experience.” Celebrating Pride is about gaining visibility for LGBTQ+ individuals and provides a platform to erase social stigmas which surround the community. Celebrating Pride, at its core, is about human rights. It is a time to champion progress, while still acknowledging the challenges that remain in our quest toward equal rights for all humans, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity. While pride is something to be celebrated all year, the month of June was designated ‘Pride Month’ in remembrance of the Stonewall uprising which occurred in June 1969 and was a pivotal moment in LGBTQ+ history. The first Pride March took place in June 1970, one year after the events of Stonewall. Now, 53 years later, Pride Month has remained a time dedicated to the uplifting of LGBTQ+ voices, celebration of LGBTQ+ culture and the support of LGBTQ+ rights. Throughout military history, the LGBTQ+ community has faced unique challenges, from policies which explicitly banned gay men and women from their ranks, policies where same-sex relationships were criminalized and considered cause for discharge, and policies which classified being gay as a mental illness, therefore disqualifying them from service. In 1993, “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” was enacted, allowing closeted LGBTQ+ people to serve. Under this policy members would not be asked about their sexual orientation but could be discharged for disclosing it. This remained in effect for 18 years, until Congress repealed the policy in 2011, allowing LGBTQ+ members to serve openly. Further barrier removal came in 2013, when spousal and family benefits were extended to same sex married couples in the military and again in 2021 when the ban on transgender individuals’ ability to serve was rescinded. Despite this progress, acceptance of LGBTQ+ members in the military is fairly new. It is important to acknowledge that cultural change takes time, stigmas may linger, and barriers do still exist for these members. I joined the Air Force in July 2017, a still closeted 23-year-old woman. Fast forward six months, I arrived at my first duty station; Minot AFB, ND. It was here my journey of accepting myself and discovering my ‘pride’ truly began. I met my best friend while at Minot AFB and right away he made me feel comfortable, loved, and accepted before I even came out to him. In a word, he knew. It was during that first year in the military I decided to come out to some of my close friends and family; however, I still wasn’t publicly open outside of small circles. To my surprise, the more fellow service members I got to know, the more I felt the love and acceptance everyone deserves, and suddenly found myself surrounded by a military family that had no hesitance to see me for me, allowing me to be my authentic self. That’s not to say I still didn’t have reservations about serving openly. It took me over a year from that point to even say the words out loud “I am gay.” Even when you do “come out,” it’s never just once. In the military, we are constantly on the move. New places, new people, some more accepting than others. However, I can attest a lot of the confidence I have gained in my identity to individuals I have met while serving. It is my hope that every LGBTQ+ service member finds such people in their own lives and within our military family. The DoD has openly recognized the value of diversity within our forces, taking intentional steps to promote inclusion and respect for all individuals who choose to serve. Everyone’s experiences are different, but regardless of our differences, we are all brothers and sisters in arms. Together we are always stronger.
## [Tinker Air Force Base](www.tinker.af.mil): ~48 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://www.tinker.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=106&ModuleId=14616&Article=3077317


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.tinker.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=106&ModuleId=14616&Article=3077317)AFSC Pride Month Message 2022 Brig. Gen. Arledge, mobilization assistant to the Commander, gives this years Pride Month message in support of all AFSC LGBTQ+ personnel. Brig. Gen. Arledge, mobilization assistant to the Commander, gives this years Pride Month message in support of all AFSC LGBTQ+ personnel.
### https://www.tinker.af.mil/News/Tag/19714/?Page=2


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.tinker.af.mil/News/Tag/19714/?Page=2)Pride Month is a time to celebrate the contributions and rights of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer/Questioning (LGBTQ+) community. Pride Month spans the entire month of June each year and brings together people, organizations, and communities to advocate for LGBTQ+ rights and
### https://www.tinker.af.mil/News/Tag/276210/tinker-pride-alliance/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.tinker.af.mil/News/Tag/276210/tinker-pride-alliance/)Pride Month is a time to celebrate the contributions and rights of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer/Questioning (LGBTQ+) community. Pride Month spans the entire month of June each year and brings together people, organizations, and communities to advocate for LGBTQ+ rights and
## [552nd Air Control Wing](www.552acw.acc.af.mil): ~48 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://www.552acw.acc.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/3081176/awacs-pride-flight-honors-diversity-and-inclusion/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.552acw.acc.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/3081176/awacs-pride-flight-honors-diversity-and-inclusion/)TINKER AIR FORCE BASE, Okla. -- Members of the 552nd Air Control Wing made history June 23 as they honored the LGBTQ+ community and celebrated their PRIDE with a flight. A nearly all LGBTQ+ crew participated in an E-3 Airborne Warning and Control Systems sortie where they also teamed up with their ground command and control counterparts, the 726th Air Control Squadron, 552 ACW at Mountain Home Air Force Base, Idaho. The flight was also refueled by an LGBTQ+ tanker crew from the 92 nd Air Refueling Wing, Fairchild Air Force Base, Washington. “Socially, pride isn’t about religion or hatred, but is about spreading love and acceptance of others regardless of your own personal opinions,” said Capt. Gregory St. Clair, a flight commander with the 963rd Airborne Air Control Squadron. “Diversity is inherently an American strength and by creating a space that celebrates our differences, we honor our Airmen, retain their talent and encourage them to become the best leaders for our military. “I’m hoping this is the first of many pride flights in the future and I hope that if nothing else, after this week the LGBTQ+ community will be that much more connected and highlighted and celebrated by people outside who may not have known we exist.” St. Clair joined the Air Force prior to the repealing of “don’t ask, don’t tell,” something he has in common with Capt. Brandon Sabin, a navigator with the 963rd AACS. “With all of the stresses that come with being a military aviator, the 552 has provided an environment that ensures my identity isn’t one of those stresses,” said Sabin. “The ability to openly celebrate pride and especially to be on today’s flight is an inspiration for me, and I hope, to others as well.” St. Clair said he wanted to showcase the LGBTQ+ community with a flight much like the heritage flights, and his leadership supported the decision telling him this is a safe zone. “When I put out the call, the response was overwhelming,” said St. Clair. “This is a combat Air Force and it isn’t just command and control, but fighters, maintainers and refueling crews who are members of the LGBTQ+ community.” Sabin said, “Events like this are outward demonstrations of the Air Force's continuing dedication to the welfare of its people, and they provide examples of how diversity and inclusion contribute to a stronger force overall.” Col. Keven Coyle, commander of the 552nd Air Control Wing believes that diversity is strength. “The LGBTQ+ community is a diverse and often intersectional community, making the Air Force stronger through skills and experiences its members bring to the greater team,” said Coyle. “The Air Force is about building an inclusive environment for everyone to thrive and we welcome and fully support that in America’s wing.”
### https://www.552acw.acc.af.mil/News/Tag/67685/pride-month/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.552acw.acc.af.mil/News/Tag/67685/pride-month/)Members of the 552nd Air Control Wing made history June 23 as they honored the LGBTQ+ community and celebrated their PRIDE with a flight.A nearly all LGBTQ+ crew participated in an E-3 Airborne Warning and Control Systems sortie where they also teamed up with their ground command and control
## [www.af.mil](www.af.mil): ~48 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://www.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=1&ModuleId=850&Article=2782315


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=1&ModuleId=850&Article=2782315)Air Force under secretary commemorates 10th anniversary of Don’t Ask Don’t Tell repeal Under Secretary of the Air Force Gina Ortiz Jones commemorated the 10th Anniversary of the repeal of the Don’t Ask Don’t Tell policy by participating in two virtual events sponsored by the White House and the Congressional LGBTQ+ caucus today. Jones joined panels of fellow LGBTQ+ community members, veterans and ranking civilian leaders in the U.S. government to celebrate the progress made since the cancellation of DADT Sept. 20, 2011. After being confirmed as the Air Force’s under secretary in July 2021, she has worked to further strengthen diversity and inclusion throughout the department. “The need for policies that ensure all service members can perform to their full potential is as critically important as any other thing we do as a department,” Jones said. Jones, who once served as an intelligence officer and deployed to Iraq while the DADT policy was in place almost two decades ago, said she faced similar challenges as other Airmen during an era when disclosing their sexual orientation was prohibited. She reflected on an experience in ROTC just as her Air Force career was first starting. “I had to sign a piece of paper saying that I would not engage in homosexual behavior because DADT applied to me even as a cadet,” Jones said. “It became clear to me that an opportunity to get an education and serve our country all goes away just because we didn’t have leaders with the courage to say anybody ready and willing to serve their country should have the opportunity to do so.” More than 13,000 individuals during the 17 years when DADT was in effect have been discharged due to their sexual orientation or gender identity. Many of those LGBTQ+ veterans and their families were also ineligible for federal benefits, like healthcare and education, due to the nature of the discharge. Now, individuals who were discharged have the ability to receive assistance from the Department of Veterans Affairs. “The repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell helped move our nation closer to its foundational promise of equality, dignity and opportunity for all. It was the right thing to do,” said President Joe Biden in an official statement released Sept 20. “Today, our military doesn’t just welcome LGBTQ+ servicemembers—it is led at the highest levels by brave LGBTQ+ veterans.” Jones, the second-highest-ranking member of the department, now serves alongside fellow LGBTQ+ veterans like Assistant Secretary of Defense for Readiness Shawn Skelly and Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg, who were in the military under DADT. She recently met with senior leaders from the Air Force and Space Force at a virtual town hall to discuss the findings of a review that studied disparities between genders and racial groups amongst both branches. “This is not just about diversity or inclusion for diversity and inclusion sake; it’s because each of those things contribute to our readiness,” Jones said. “We need talent as diverse as the opportunities and challenges that we face as a country.” Last Friday, Jones organized a meeting and group photo with LGBTQ+ Airmen and Guardians stationed at the Pentagon to celebrate the 10th anniversary of the repeal. She said she was surprised to see a number of junior-ranking service members who enlisted long after the DADT policy was repealed. “That really warmed my heart because they knew they could now serve because of the repeal and bring their full selves to the mission,” Jones said. While Jones fulfills her duties as the department’s under secretary and ensures the welfare of approximately 697,000 active duty, Guard, Reserve and civilian Airmen and Guardians and their families worldwide, she said she will continue to champion policies that rebuild trust, which directly impacts the department’s operational readiness. “I’m ecstatic about where we are going, but we obviously have some work to do,” she said.
### https://www.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/2585778/department-of-the-air-force-creates-two-new-barrier-analysis-working-groups-for/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/2585778/department-of-the-air-force-creates-two-new-barrier-analysis-working-groups-for/)ARLINGTON, Va. (AFNS) -- The Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer/Questioning Initiative Team (LIT) and the Indigenous Nations Equality Teams (INET) were recently formally established by the Department of the Air Force under the umbrella of its Barrier Analysis Working Group (BAWG). The establishment of these two teams builds on the successes of the Department of the Air Force’s other teams and allows the Department of the Air Force to identify and address the issues impacting diversity and inclusion for Airmen and Guardians. The LGBTQ Initiative Team focuses on the LGBTQ community and identifies and works to resolve the issues that disproportionately impede the success of LGBTQ Airmen and Guardians. The creation of this team comes 10 years after the repeal of Don’t Ask Don’t Tell, the legislation that prohibited LGB service members from serving openly. For many of the senior-ranking military members, some of whom served under DADT for nearly two decades, the creation of LIT is a watershed event. Maj. Gen. Leah Lauderback, one of the group’s founders and its military officer champion, reports a lot of excitement about the LIT, “I expect our group will grow–our community and allies want to help!” The INET, a play on words for the term Innit which is a slang term among tribes meaning, “yes, I agree,” will review and analyze guidelines, programs, data and other information for barriers to employment, advancement and retention of American Indian/Native American and Alaska Native employees and military members. “We are looking forward to representing our Airmen and Guardians who are a part of the indigenous nation’s community,” said Col. Terrence Adams, INET champion. “We are hoping to identify changes that will eliminate barriers affecting members within these groups. We cannot be aware of things that need to change unless we are talking about them with an open mind.” Both of these teams may also serve as an initial member/employer resource group for both of their communities. The Department of the Air Force created the BAWG in 2008 to analyze data, trends and barriers to service for the civilian workforce. Since then, the focus has broadened to include military personnel. “Once again, our Airmen and Guardians are leading the way. With the addition of these two groups, we will have a better understanding of barriers to service which allows us to enhance our diversity and inclusion,” said Gwendolyn DeFilippi, assistant deputy chief of staff for manpower, personnel and services. “Our Airmen and Guardians are the pulse of our Department’s culture and the diverse backgrounds. Inputs from these volunteer groups is vital.” As of March 2021, the Department of the Air Force has established the following teams: Black/African American Employment Strategy Team, Disability Action Team, Hispanic Empowerment and Action Team, Indigenous Nations Equality Team, LGBTQ Initiative Team, Pacific Islander/Asian American Community Team and Women’s Initiatives Team. Airmen or Guardians interested in getting involved with the Barrier Analysis Working Group should contact SAF/ODI at SAF.ODI.Workflow@us.af.mil.
### https://www.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=1&ModuleId=850&Article=2585778


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=1&ModuleId=850&Article=2585778)Department of the Air Force creates two new barrier analysis working groups for LGBTQ, Indigenous Nation members The Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer/Questioning Initiative Team (LIT) and the Indigenous Nations Equality Teams (INET) were recently formally established by the Department of the Air Force under the umbrella of its Barrier Analysis Working Group (BAWG). The establishment of these two teams builds on the successes of the Department of the Air Force’s other teams and allows the Department of the Air Force to identify and address the issues impacting diversity and inclusion for Airmen and Guardians. The LGBTQ Initiative Team focuses on the LGBTQ community and identifies and works to resolve the issues that disproportionately impede the success of LGBTQ Airmen and Guardians. The creation of this team comes 10 years after the repeal of Don’t Ask Don’t Tell, the legislation that prohibited LGB service members from serving openly. For many of the senior-ranking military members, some of whom served under DADT for nearly two decades, the creation of LIT is a watershed event. Maj. Gen. Leah Lauderback, one of the group’s founders and its military officer champion, reports a lot of excitement about the LIT, “I expect our group will grow–our community and allies want to help!” The INET, a play on words for the term Innit which is a slang term among tribes meaning, “yes, I agree,” will review and analyze guidelines, programs, data and other information for barriers to employment, advancement and retention of American Indian/Native American and Alaska Native employees and military members. “We are looking forward to representing our Airmen and Guardians who are a part of the indigenous nation’s community,” said Col. Terrence Adams, INET champion. “We are hoping to identify changes that will eliminate barriers affecting members within these groups. We cannot be aware of things that need to change unless we are talking about them with an open mind.” Both of these teams may also serve as an initial member/employer resource group for both of their communities. The Department of the Air Force created the BAWG in 2008 to analyze data, trends and barriers to service for the civilian workforce. Since then, the focus has broadened to include military personnel. “Once again, our Airmen and Guardians are leading the way. With the addition of these two groups, we will have a better understanding of barriers to service which allows us to enhance our diversity and inclusion,” said Gwendolyn DeFilippi, assistant deputy chief of staff for manpower, personnel and services. “Our Airmen and Guardians are the pulse of our Department’s culture and the diverse backgrounds. Inputs from these volunteer groups is vital.” As of March 2021, the Department of the Air Force has established the following teams: Black/African American Employment Strategy Team, Disability Action Team, Hispanic Empowerment and Action Team, Indigenous Nations Equality Team, LGBTQ Initiative Team, Pacific Islander/Asian American Community Team and Women’s Initiatives Team. Airmen or Guardians interested in getting involved with the Barrier Analysis Working Group should contact SAF/ODI at SAF.ODI.Workflow@us.af.mil.
### https://www.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=1&ModuleId=850&Article=3056339


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=1&ModuleId=850&Article=3056339)DoD pays tribute to LGBTQ+ service members Pride Month is a time to come together to honor the contributions of LGBTQ+ service members, said Deputy Defense Secretary Kathleen H. Hicks, who spoke at the 11th LBGTQ+ Pride Ceremony at the Pentagon June 7. As President Joe Biden recently stated, Pride Month is a time to remind the LGBTQ+ community that they are valued and deserve dignity, respect and support, she said. 51:03 The Defense Department strives to lead on issues related to diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility, including for LGBTQ+ people, she said. "The DoD is committed to ensuring and promoting an atmosphere of dignity and respect for all civilian and military personnel. We strive to make the Department of Defense a workplace of choice for all Americans willing and qualified to serve. In doing so, we set a bedrock foundation where all personnel are valued and given an equal opportunity to succeed," she said. Recruiting, developing and retaining a highly skilled military and civilian workforce of diverse talent is essential to U.S. warfighting success, she said. "The department should not and cannot be a place that discourages outstanding LGBTQ+ individuals from a career in DoD because of actual or perceived barriers to entry or hostile workplace conditions," she said. In September 2011, the "don't ask, don't tell" policy was repealed, allowing LGBTQ+ service members and civilians to acknowledge their sexual orientation and serve openly. In September, the DoD commemorated the 10-year anniversary of that repeal, she said. "We will continue to advance policies and programs to develop and nurture a leadership pipeline of diverse talent and create pathways for everyone at DoD to realize their potential. We know that organizational climates affect our workforces' experiences. More to the point, it affects our warrior readiness. Therefore, we are directing initiatives to improve leaders' skill development and foster more effective, inclusive team environments," Hicks said. The department is developing a diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility strategic plan to guide and direct activities to further those initiatives within the department, she said. That plan is in the final stages of approval and will identify DoD's priorities and objectives for the coming year, Hicks said. Progress will not be driven by policies and programs alone; it will also result from the individual actions each person takes every day, she said. "The diversity of the United States is unquestionably one of our greatest strengths. Many here today have fought hard battles to overcome bigotry and be treated with dignity and respect that is due to every human being," Hicks said. Pride Month is a time to celebrate progress, and it's also a time for the department, the nation and the world to acknowledge the challenges that remain and to reaffirm our commitment to equality for LGBTQ+ people, she said.
### https://www.af.mil/News/Photos/igphoto/2003244371/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.af.mil/News/Photos/igphoto/2003244371/)LGBTQ+ Pride Celebration Air Force Director of Diversity and Inclusion Marianne P. Malizia addresses the audience at the Air Force LGBTQ+ Pride Celebration event in the Pentagon, Arlington, Va., June 8, 2023. The event was hosted by Secretary of the Air Force Frank Kendall. (U.S. Air Force photo by Andy Morataya) PHOTO BY: Andy Morataya VIRIN: 230608-F-JJ904-0720.JPG FULL SIZE: 0.49 MB CAMERA N/A LENS N/A APERTURE N/A No camera details available. IMAGE IS PUBLIC DOMAIN Read More This photograph is considered public domain and has been cleared for release. If you would like to republish please give the photographer appropriate credit. Further, any commercial or non-commercial use of this photograph or any other DoD image must be made in compliance with guidance found at https://www.dimoc.mil/resources/limitations, which pertains to intellectual property restrictions (e.g., copyright and trademark, including the use of official emblems, insignia, names and slogans), warnings regarding use of images of identifiable personnel, appearance of endorsement, and related matters.
### https://www.af.mil/News/Photos/igphoto/2003244373/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.af.mil/News/Photos/igphoto/2003244373/)LGBTQ+ Pride Celebration Secretary of the Air Force Frank Kendall hosts the Department of the Air Force LGBTQ+ Pride Celebration event in the Pentagon, Arlington, Va., June 8, 2023. The DAF’s LGBTQ+ Initiative Team celebrated their team’s growth as membership approached 1,000. (U.S. Air Force photo by Andy Morataya) PHOTO BY: Andy Morataya VIRIN: 230608-F-JJ904-1661.JPG FULL SIZE: 0.47 MB CAMERA N/A LENS N/A APERTURE N/A No camera details available. IMAGE IS PUBLIC DOMAIN Read More This photograph is considered public domain and has been cleared for release. If you would like to republish please give the photographer appropriate credit. Further, any commercial or non-commercial use of this photograph or any other DoD image must be made in compliance with guidance found at https://www.dimoc.mil/resources/limitations, which pertains to intellectual property restrictions (e.g., copyright and trademark, including the use of official emblems, insignia, names and slogans), warnings regarding use of images of identifiable personnel, appearance of endorsement, and related matters.
### https://www.af.mil/News/Photos/igphoto/2003244372/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.af.mil/News/Photos/igphoto/2003244372/)LGBTQ+ Pride Celebration Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs Alex Wagner addresses the audience at the Air Force LGBTQ+ Pride Celebration event in the Pentagon, Arlington, Va., June 8, 2023. The event was hosted by Secretary of the Air Force Frank Kendall. (U.S. Air Force photo by Andy Morataya) PHOTO BY: Andy Morataya VIRIN: 230608-F-JJ904-1411.JPG FULL SIZE: 0.48 MB CAMERA N/A LENS N/A APERTURE N/A No camera details available. IMAGE IS PUBLIC DOMAIN Read More This photograph is considered public domain and has been cleared for release. If you would like to republish please give the photographer appropriate credit. Further, any commercial or non-commercial use of this photograph or any other DoD image must be made in compliance with guidance found at https://www.dimoc.mil/resources/limitations, which pertains to intellectual property restrictions (e.g., copyright and trademark, including the use of official emblems, insignia, names and slogans), warnings regarding use of images of identifiable personnel, appearance of endorsement, and related matters.
### https://www.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/3432936/lit-hosts-pride-event-nears-team-milestone/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/3432936/lit-hosts-pride-event-nears-team-milestone/)ARLINGTON, Va. (AFNS) -- The Department of the Air Force LGBTQ+ Initiative Team (LIT) hosted a gathering of Airmen, Guardians and senior leaders June 8 in honor of Pride Month. The theme of the event was “Pride forever, count us in.” The master of ceremonies and LIT chair, Col. Mark Wernersbach, explained the message behind the theme. “’Pride Forever’ represents what we already know,” Wernersbach said. “Gay and lesbian service members have been serving our nation since the beginning and will continue to do so. ‘Count us in’ stands for our growing team as we near 1,000 members. That’s nearly 1,000 LGBTQ+ Airmen, Guardians and allies that are out there trying to make a change.” The LIT barrier analysis working group was formed in April 2021 to help identify and solve issues impacting inclusion of LGBTQ+ Airmen and Guardians in DAF. Since the creation of the team, it has raised awareness, informed medical policies, and advocated on behalf of LGBTQ+ military members and civilian employees. The afternoon event had an optimistic tone and featured remarks from Secretary of the Air Force Frank Kendall, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs Hon. Alex Wagner and Department of the Air Force Director of Diversity and Inclusion Hon. Marianne P. Malizia. Malizia kicked off the speaker series with compliments to the LIT on its remarkable growth in two years. “The [LIT are] committed to doing the good work, identifying barriers to recruitment and retention, but more importantly, identifying ways to overcome those barriers for LGBTQ+ Airmen, Guardians, and family members,” Malizia said. She went on to highlight key steps for DAF members to learn to be more inclusive. “I encourage all of us to continue to learn more about people of different identities and backgrounds,” said Malizia. “Ask respectful questions, ask how you can find opportunities to expand your ways of thinking and broaden your perspectives.” Wagner shared a policy-focused perspective and highlighted progress that has dismantled barriers to service and increased quality of life for all service members. “It was a year ago today that the department updated its policies for individuals who have been identified as HIV positive, asymptomatic and have undetectable viral loads,” said Wagner. “As a result of revised policy, they no longer have any restrictions on deployability or their ability to commission as an officer, nor will such individuals be discharged or separated solely based on their HIV positive status.” Wagner also connected the far-reaching benefits of recently announced DOD initiatives and their impact on LGBTQ+ families, including 12 weeks of parental leave, reproductive health policies, and expanded data collection efforts. He emphasized his commitment to ensuring that the dependents of Airmen and Guardians are safe and can thrive: “I want all military affiliated LGBTQ kids to know that we have your back. I have your back,” Wagner said. Kendall also expressed a new take on the contemporary term ‘woke’ and the need for empathy. “I have my own interpretation,” said Kendall. “I think being woke is about having empathy. It's about understanding people who aren't like you, and appreciating them for who they are, and valuing them.” Kendall closed by thanking the LIT and recognizing them for their achievements. “We need to get to know each other, we need to work together,” said Kendall. “We appreciate each other, value each other and treat each other with respect. I want to thank the LIT for the work they’ve done. It has been enormously helpful. Keep doing it; the fight’s not over.”
### https://www.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=1&ModuleId=850&Article=3432936


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=1&ModuleId=850&Article=3432936)LIT hosts Pride event, nears team milestone The Department of the Air Force LGBTQ+ Initiative Team (LIT) hosted a gathering of Airmen, Guardians and senior leaders June 8 in honor of Pride Month. The theme of the event was “Pride forever, count us in.” The master of ceremonies and LIT chair, Col. Mark Wernersbach, explained the message behind the theme. “’Pride Forever’ represents what we already know,” Wernersbach said. “Gay and lesbian service members have been serving our nation since the beginning and will continue to do so. ‘Count us in’ stands for our growing team as we near 1,000 members. That’s nearly 1,000 LGBTQ+ Airmen, Guardians and allies that are out there trying to make a change.” The LIT barrier analysis working group was formed in April 2021 to help identify and solve issues impacting inclusion of LGBTQ+ Airmen and Guardians in DAF. Since the creation of the team, it has raised awareness, informed medical policies, and advocated on behalf of LGBTQ+ military members and civilian employees. The afternoon event had an optimistic tone and featured remarks from Secretary of the Air Force Frank Kendall, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Manpower and Reserve Affairs Hon. Alex Wagner and Department of the Air Force Director of Diversity and Inclusion Hon. Marianne P. Malizia. Malizia kicked off the speaker series with compliments to the LIT on its remarkable growth in two years. “The [LIT are] committed to doing the good work, identifying barriers to recruitment and retention, but more importantly, identifying ways to overcome those barriers for LGBTQ+ Airmen, Guardians, and family members,” Malizia said. She went on to highlight key steps for DAF members to learn to be more inclusive. “I encourage all of us to continue to learn more about people of different identities and backgrounds,” said Malizia. “Ask respectful questions, ask how you can find opportunities to expand your ways of thinking and broaden your perspectives.” “It was a year ago today that the department updated its policies for individuals who have been identified as HIV positive, asymptomatic and have undetectable viral loads,” said Wagner. “As a result of revised policy, they no longer have any restrictions on deployability or their ability to commission as an officer, nor will such individuals be discharged or separated solely based on their HIV positive status.” Wagner also connected the far-reaching benefits of recently announced DOD initiatives and their impact on LGBTQ+ families, including 12 weeks of parental leave, reproductive health policies, and expanded data collection efforts. He emphasized his commitment to ensuring that the dependents of Airmen and Guardians are safe and can thrive: “I want all military affiliated LGBTQ kids to know that we have your back. I have your back,” Wagner said. “I have my own interpretation,” said Kendall. “I think being woke is about having empathy. It's about understanding people who aren't like you, and appreciating them for who they are, and valuing them.” Kendall closed by thanking the LIT and recognizing them for their achievements. “We need to get to know each other, we need to work together,” said Kendall. “We appreciate each other, value each other and treat each other with respect. I want to thank the LIT for the work they’ve done. It has been enormously helpful. Keep doing it; the fight’s not over.”
## [Creech Air Force Base](www.creech.af.mil): ~48 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://www.creech.af.mil/News/Art/igpage/3/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.creech.af.mil/News/Art/igpage/3/)Creech Airmen gather to share Pride, love, growth The Creech Diversity Council hosted a Coffee and Conversations event in honor of Pride Month featuring a panel of 432nd Wing LGBTQ+ Airmen at the Base Theater Jun 25, 2020. Airmen and leaders from across the 432nd WG/432nd AEW sat together on a stage to initiate dialogue with their peers relating to their experiences as members who identify as LGBTQ+. (U.S. Air Force graphic by Senior Airman Lauren Silverthorne)
## [Edwards Air Force Base](www.edwards.af.mil): ~48 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://www.edwards.af.mil/News/AFMC-News/Article/2586395/department-of-the-air-force-creates-two-new-barrier-analysis-working-groups-for/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.edwards.af.mil/News/AFMC-News/Article/2586395/department-of-the-air-force-creates-two-new-barrier-analysis-working-groups-for/)ARLINGTON, Va. (AFNS) -- The Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer/Questioning Initiative Team (LIT) and the Indigenous Nations Equality Teams (INET) were recently formally established by the Department of the Air Force under the umbrella of its Barrier Analysis Working Group (BAWG). The establishment of these two teams builds on the successes of the Department of the Air Force’s other teams and allows the Department of the Air Force to identify and address the issues impacting diversity and inclusion for Airmen and Guardians. The LGBTQ Initiative Team focuses on the LGBTQ community and identifies and works to resolve the issues that disproportionately impede the success of LGBTQ Airmen and Guardians. The creation of this team comes 10 years after the repeal of Don’t Ask Don’t Tell, the legislation that prohibited LGB service members from serving openly. For many of the senior-ranking military members, some of whom served under DADT for nearly two decades, the creation of LIT is a watershed event. Maj. Gen. Leah Lauderback, one of the group’s founders and its military officer champion, reports a lot of excitement about the LIT, “I expect our group will grow–our community and allies want to help!” The INET, a play on words for the term Innit which is a slang term among tribes meaning, “yes, I agree,” will review and analyze guidelines, programs, data and other information for barriers to employment, advancement and retention of American Indian/Native American and Alaska Native employees and military members. “We are looking forward to representing our Airmen and Guardians who are a part of the indigenous nation’s community,” said Col. Terrence Adams, INET champion. “We are hoping to identify changes that will eliminate barriers affecting members within these groups. We cannot be aware of things that need to change unless we are talking about them with an open mind.” Both of these teams may also serve as an initial member/employer resource group for both of their communities. The Department of the Air Force created the BAWG in 2008 to analyze data, trends and barriers to service for the civilian workforce. Since then, the focus has broadened to include military personnel. “Once again, our Airmen and Guardians are leading the way. With the addition of these two groups, we will have a better understanding of barriers to service which allows us to enhance our diversity and inclusion,” said Gwendolyn DeFilippi, assistant deputy chief of staff for manpower, personnel and services. “Our Airmen and Guardians are the pulse of our Department’s culture and the diverse backgrounds. Inputs from these volunteer groups is vital.” As of March 2021, the Department of the Air Force has established the following teams: Black/African American Employment Strategy Team, Disability Action Team, Hispanic Empowerment and Action Team, Indigenous Nations Equality Team, LGBTQ Initiative Team, Pacific Islander/Asian American Community Team and Women’s Initiatives Team. Airmen or Guardians interested in getting involved with the Barrier Analysis Working Group should contact SAF/ODI at SAF.ODI.Workflow@us.af.mil.
### https://www.edwards.af.mil/News/AFMC-News/Article/3060855/rescheduled-lgbtq-pride-month-mentoring-panel-set-for-june-21/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.edwards.af.mil/News/AFMC-News/Article/3060855/rescheduled-lgbtq-pride-month-mentoring-panel-set-for-june-21/)WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE, Ohio -- The Air Force Materiel Command will host a Cross-Cultural Mentoring Panel in conjunction with Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer Pride Month, June 21, at 12:30 p.m. ET. The virtual event, hosted on ZoomGov, is open to all AFMC uniformed and civilian Airmen. This is a reschedule of the June 8 event which was unable to broadcast due to technical difficulties. Paul Waugh, Program Executive Officer for the Mobility and Training Aircraft Directorate, Air Force Life Cycle Management Center, will kick-off the event, which will feature representatives from across the Air Force and industry. Panel members include: -Maj. Gen. Leah Lauderback, Director of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance, Headquarters, U.S. Space Force - -Stephen Ober, Chief, Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Accessibility, Hanscom AFB - -Charles Bogner, Research Biologist, 711th Human Performance Wing, AFRL - -Capt. Lauren Leet, Air Force Life Cycle Management Center - Sharita Figueroa, Program and Management Analyst, Directorate of Personnel, Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center, will serve as moderator at the event. This is the fourth of eight mentoring events scheduled to occur during special observance months throughout 2022. The events are hosted by the AFMC Major Command Barrier Analysis Working Group champions and will focus on issues related to the groups celebrated during the special observance period. The link for the event will be sent to all AFMC personnel via internal communication channels. Personnel can submit questions for the panelists prior to the event by emailing AFMC.A1DC.TrainingNeedsAssessments@us.af.mil. Additional information on AFMC Mentoring and upcoming events is available at https://www.afmc.af.mil/careers/AFMC-Mentoring/.
## [AFCEC](www.afcec.af.mil): ~48 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://www.afcec.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/3070805/lgbtq-pride-month-mentoring-panel-highlights-challenges-opportunities/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.afcec.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/3070805/lgbtq-pride-month-mentoring-panel-highlights-challenges-opportunities/)WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE, Ohio -- Air Force Materiel Command held a virtual Cross-Cultural Mentoring Panel June 21 in conjunction with LGBTQ+ Pride Month. More than 150 individuals from across the command tuned in live to hear from leaders and allies of the LGBTQ+ community who shared their experiences and mentorship perspectives. “It's all up to all of us to educate everyone about the LGBTQ+ community. We need to take the time to talk to folks in order to gain a better understanding of what the community has gone through, what they're facing in the future and how we, as allies, can help,” said Paul Waugh, program executive officer and director, Mobility and Training Aircraft Directorate, Air Force Life Cycle Management Center, who served as the panel host. Additional panel members included Stephen Ober, Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility chief, Hanscom Air Force Base; Capt. Lauren Leet, program manager, F-22 Raptor Release 3, AFLCMC; Senior Master Sgt. David Smith, co-chair, Department of the Air Force LGBTQ+ Initiatives Team; and Charles Bogner, research biological scientist, 711th Human Performance Wing, Air Force Research Laboratory. To view the event recording, visit https://www.zoomgov.com/rec/play/yYoeZFmPBix96tRncK5K57BdQExLcvL6mB4VMDDco8PDkjFraWthYEA4drPjL9ZVyJvFDUKCk7wYuQSJ.NZHLEOBKFKrpPsKg. The LGBTQ+ event was one of a series of mentoring panels being conducted throughout 2022 in conjunction with Air Force special observance months. For information on mentoring and to learn about future events, visit https://www.afmc.af.mil/careers/AFMC-Mentoring.
### https://www.afcec.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=17&ModuleId=2425&Article=3070805


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.afcec.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=17&ModuleId=2425&Article=3070805)LGBTQ+ Pride Month Mentoring Panel highlights challenges, opportunities More than 150 individuals from across the command tuned in live to hear from leaders and allies of the LGBTQ+ community who shared their experiences and mentorship perspectives. “It's all up to all of us to educate everyone about the LGBTQ+ community. We need to take the time to talk to folks in order to gain a better understanding of what the community has gone through, what they're facing in the future and how we, as allies, can help,” said Paul Waugh, program executive officer and director, Mobility and Training Aircraft Directorate, Air Force Life Cycle Management Center, who served as the panel host. Additional panel members included Stephen Ober, Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility chief, Hanscom Air Force Base; Capt. Lauren Leet, program manager, F-22 Raptor Release 3, AFLCMC; Senior Master Sgt. David Smith, co-chair, Department of the Air Force LGBTQ+ Initiatives Team; and Charles Bogner, research biological scientist, 711th Human Performance Wing, Air Force Research Laboratory. To view the event recording, visit https://www.zoomgov.com/rec/play/yYoeZFmPBix96tRncK5K57BdQExLcvL6mB4VMDDco8PDkjFraWthYEA4drPjL9ZVyJvFDUKCk7wYuQSJ.NZHLEOBKFKrpPsKg. The LGBTQ+ event was one of a series of mentoring panels being conducted throughout 2022 in conjunction with Air Force special observance months. For information on mentoring and to learn about future events, visit https://www.afmc.af.mil/careers/AFMC-Mentoring.
### https://www.afcec.af.mil/News/Art/igphoto/2003022468/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.afcec.af.mil/News/Art/igphoto/2003022468/)Mentoring Panel The Air Force Materiel Command held a virtual Cross-Cultural Mentoring Panel in conjunction with LGBTQ+ Pride Month, June 21, on ZoomGov. More than 150 individuals from across the command tuned in live to hear from leaders and allies of the LGBTQ+ community who shared their experiences and mentorship perspectives. PHOTO BY: Courtesy Graphic VIRIN: 220622-F-ZS899-1001.JPG FULL SIZE: 0.2 MB CAMERA N/A LENS N/A APERTURE N/A No camera details available. IMAGE IS PUBLIC DOMAIN Read More This photograph is considered public domain and has been cleared for release. If you would like to republish please give the photographer appropriate credit. Further, any commercial or non-commercial use of this photograph or any other DoD image must be made in compliance with guidance found at https://www.dimoc.mil/resources/limitations, which pertains to intellectual property restrictions (e.g., copyright and trademark, including the use of official emblems, insignia, names and slogans), warnings regarding use of images of identifiable personnel, appearance of endorsement, and related matters.
### https://www.afcec.af.mil/News/Photos-Art/igphoto/2003022468/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.afcec.af.mil/News/Photos-Art/igphoto/2003022468/)The Air Force Materiel Command held a virtual Cross-Cultural Mentoring Panel in conjunction with LGBTQ+ Pride Month, June 21, on ZoomGov. More than 150 individuals from across the command tuned in live to hear from leaders and allies of the LGBTQ+ community who shared their experiences and mentorship perspectives. CAMERA N/A LENS APERTURE SHUTTERSPEED ISO No camera details available. This photograph is considered public domain and has been cleared for release. If you would like to republish please give the photographer appropriate credit. Further, any commercial or non-commercial use of this photograph or any other DoD image must be made in compliance with guidance found at https://www.dimoc.mil/resources/limitations, which pertains to intellectual property restrictions (e.g., copyright and trademark, including the use of official emblems, insignia, names and slogans), warnings regarding use of images of identifiable personnel, appearance of endorsement, and related matters. PNG
### https://www.afcec.af.mil/News/Tag/54176/mentoring/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.afcec.af.mil/News/Tag/54176/mentoring/)June 22, 2022 LGBTQ+ Pride Month Mentoring Panel highlights challenges, opportunities Air Force Materiel Command held a virtual Cross-Cultural Mentoring Panel June 21, in conjunction with LGBTQ+ Pride Month.
## [www.robins.af.mil](www.robins.af.mil): ~48 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://www.robins.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=59&ModuleId=8582&Article=2654622


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.robins.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=59&ModuleId=8582&Article=2654622)Light shines on AFMC Airmen during LGBTQ+ Pride Month As the word diversity is defined and dissected by organizations, the Air Force Materiel Command is aggressively exploring the means to integrate diverse communities into seamless, inclusive military working environments across the mission. “It's important for AFMC organizations to be welcoming places for all Airmen, to include the LGBTQ community,” said Keith Tickle, Chief, AFMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion. To that end, AFMC is deliberately creating community conversations via AFMC-wide sensing sessions on different Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer/Questioning topic areas, inviting Airmen to speak about their experiences, share their stories, and to raise awareness of local advocacy groups. Out front in the effort to encourage, inform and open doors for AFMC Airmen is Brianna Russ, Headquarters AFMC workforce development specialist. Russ is a member of the Department of the Air Force LGBTQ Barrier Analysis Working Group, whose primary focus is LGBTQ Initiatives. The group’s purpose is to determine what barriers persist that keep LGBTQ Airmen from full integration into the military community. “We are working on policies for transgender Airmen who are in the middle of their transition, education and awareness activities Air Force-wide and many other projects that have not made their way to the AFMC level yet,” said Russ. There are major initiatives that Russ, through group interaction, has determined will have the greatest and most immediate impact in the life of an Airman undergoing gender transition. One initiative involves the point at which the Defense Enrollment Eligibility Reporting System, or DEERS, changes a transgender Airmen’s official gender marker. The Air Force only recognizes petitions to change from male to female, or female to male genders on the binary spectrum. “There is no recognition of people who fall in the middle,” said Russ. Currently, official changes of gender markers occur in DEERS at the end of the counseling, hormone treatment and surgery. The Air Force requires medical treatment for a gender marker to move. During the in-between stage, patients undergoing treatment are in stasis, beginning to physically look like the new evolving gender, but not quite there. Questions might occur among supervisors and peers on topics like: which restroom facilities should be used, appropriate clothing or the correct pronoun to use when referring to an Airman, as they are neither male nor female. One line of effort for LGBTQ involves changing the gender marker in the DEERS to when the transition process starts, as opposed to at the very end for assigned male or assigned female at birth Airmen. Another potentially beneficial initiative Russ’s group proposes is putting gender pronouns in signature blocks of correspondence. “A seemingly small thing like adding an identifying pronoun in a signature block might help a transgender Airman to be more of their full self at work,” said Russ. Recently, the Air Force formally established a task force called the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer/Questioning Initiative Team, or LIT, under the umbrella of its Department of the Air Force Barrier Analysis Working Group. Maj. Gen. Leah Lauderback, director of intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance for the U.S. Space Force, leads one of the two recently-created taskforces. The Air Force and Space Forces LIT were created in March 2021 to update military policies which continue to pose barriers to minority service members. “LIT’s vision is to be the light that illuminates the path toward change, acceptance, and equality for all of those that came before us and those that will come after us,” said Lauderback. Russ and others on the AFMC team support finding issues that need resolving and recommending changes to Department of the Air Force leadership, educating others on the unique traditions and challenges in their communities, and offering support to members of those communities who are struggling. On June 1, 2021, AFMC’s policies and practices were reinforced by presidential proclamation through an Executive Order ‘charging Federal agencies to fully enforce all Federal laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of gender identity or sexual orientation’. The Executive order also ‘affirmed all qualified Americans will be able to serve in the Armed Forces of the United States — including patriotic transgender Americans who can once again proudly and openly serve their Nation in uniform’. “We see you, we support you, and we are inspired by your courage to accept nothing less than full equality,” said President Joseph Biden. During LGBTQ+ Pride Month, AFMC teams across the command will actively race towards greater understanding and work to increase knowledge of transgender challenges by creating greater awareness of LGBTQ issues and more. “The AFMC sees transgender Airmen as valued members of a diverse community,” said Tickle.
## [Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center](www.afimsc.af.mil): ~48 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://www.afimsc.af.mil/News/Tag/15620/careers/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.afimsc.af.mil/News/Tag/15620/careers/)June 22, 2022 LGBTQ+ Pride Month Mentoring Panel highlights challenges, opportunities Air Force Materiel Command held a virtual Cross-Cultural Mentoring Panel June 21, in conjunction with LGBTQ+ Pride Month.
### https://www.afimsc.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=89&ModuleId=11398&Article=3065187


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.afimsc.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=89&ModuleId=11398&Article=3065187)Rescheduled LGBTQ Pride Month mentoring panel set for June 21 Paul Waugh, program executive officer for the Air Force Life Cycle Management Center Mobility and Training Aircraft Directorate will kick-off the event, which will feature representatives from across the Air Force and industry. Panel members include: Maj. Gen. Leah Lauderback, director of Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance, Headquarters, U.S. Space Force - Stephen Ober, chief, Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Accessibility, Hanscom AFB, Massachusetts - Charles Bogner, research biologist, 711th Human Performance Wing, AFRL - Capt. Lauren Leet, Air Force Life Cycle Management Center - Sharita Figueroa, program and management analyst at the Air Force Installation and Mission Support Center's Directorate of Personnel will serve as moderator at the event. This is the fourth of eight mentoring events scheduled during special observance months throughout 2022. The events are hosted by the AFMC Major Command Barrier Analysis Working Group champions and focus on issues related to the groups celebrated during the special observance period. The link for the event will be sent to all AFMC personnel via internal communication channels. Personnel can submit questions for the panelists prior to the event by emailing AFMC.A1DC.TrainingNeedsAssessments@us.af.mil. Additional information on AFMC Mentoring and upcoming events is available at https://www.afmc.af.mil/careers/AFMC-Mentoring/.
## [JAG Reporter ](www.jagreporter.af.mil): ~48 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://www.jagreporter.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=88&ModuleId=22882&Article=3431328


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.jagreporter.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=88&ModuleId=22882&Article=3431328)Pride Month Pride Month Pride month offers an opportunity to better get to know the challenges our LGBTQ+ Airmen and Guardians and their families face as they navigate day-to-day life within the Department of the Air Force. Knowing our Airmen and Guardians and creating an environment of support and respect within the JAG Corps is instrumental to mission-readiness, as well as our ongoing recruiting and retention efforts. The following is one JAG Corps member’s personal journey from being relatively unaffected by LGBTQ+ considerations to a life in which those issues have become and remain paramount, through the lens of an otherwise ordinary part of military life—choosing where to live after a PCS move. Repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell I joined the Air Force in 2011. At JASOC, our class was briefed on the repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell (DADT). At the time, I had a serious boyfriend who I had been dating for two years and who was following me to Alaska for my first assignment. I was aware of DADT, but only on a surface level, as it did not apply to me. The briefing at JASOC was just another drop from the firehose that I mentally tucked away. A couple of years later, that boyfriend became my husband, and I was headed to my second assignment. We decided to move houses in Alaska to have more space and give him a shorter commute to work. We looked online, found a place we liked, toured it, and rented the house. Easy. Fast forward another couple of years, and I received my third assignment, to Eglin Air Force Base, Florida We talked to people about where to live, toured a house virtually, and rented it before we ever set foot in Florida. Even easier. Things didn’t work out between my now ex-husband and me, and we ended up parting ways. As a single woman, I moved into a new house in Florida. My main considerations were rent, pet friendliness, and ease of commute. I looked online, visited a couple places, and moved in. Same-Sex Couple After two years in Florida, I received my next assignment; I got my dream job teaching at the United States Air Force Academy (USAFA), in Colorado Springs, Colorado. However, this move was a little different. I was moving as a geographically separated spouse who was married to a woman, and fellow AF JAG. My wife still had a year left on her assignment at Joint Base McGuire Dix Lakehurst (JBMDL) in New Jersey. We traveled to Colorado Springs to find a house the day after our wedding. We had previously found a realtor who had about twenty houses ready for us to look at on our two-day, whirlwind, house-hunting tour. This was my fifth house-hunt since joining the Air Force, but this time, everything was different. There were new things to consider, new concerns and uncertainties, and many manymore questions. What type of neighborhood am I moving to? Will they accept us as a couple? What if we have kids? Will they be friendly to my family? When we began asking these questions to our realtor, she ended up crossing a few houses off the list. We were very lucky to have found a realtor so knowledgeable about the areas we needed to avoid. Millions of Questions This was the first time I really thought about how different my life was now, as a part of a same-sex couple. Now I was thinking about a million other things, and had a million more questions to answer. Will being out in the military affect my career? Yes, DADT was repealed, but will my new boss and co-workers accept me and my family, or only tolerate us? What if one of my new co-workers has political or religious views that are opposed to my life and family? Will they still be willing to work with me? I thought: “I’m going to be geographically separated, maybe I will just keep my relationship status private for as long as possible.” It was a terrible feeling to have to consider whether to hide my joy about my brand-new wife. I hadn’t considered any of this before getting married. I was madly in love with her; why wouldn’t I marry her? And why wouldn’t I be proud for people to know it? After moving to USAFA, the unanticipated considerations kept coming up. I thought: “When I introduce myself to my class, do I say anything about my wife? What if one of my cadets believes gay marriage or being gay is wrong? Will I lose all credibility? Will cadets ask to transfer out of my class?” For my first year, I waited until at least mid-semester to use the word “wife,” opting to use “spouse” or “partner” instead. In my second year, I changed tactics. My wife was now stationed at USAFA as well, as the Victims’ Counsel, and I introduced her on day one, just like I would have if she had been my husband. Not only did no cadets ask to transfer out of my class, after the first class of the first day, a cadet stayed late to thank me for treating my family like everyone else’s. She was so grateful to see herself represented by an officer and a professor in such a “normal” way. Inclusivity Some of the million questions I had were based on feeling uncertain about my place in a post-DADT Air Force, but within a society where discrimination and disenfranchisement were and are a reality for many, both inside and outside the LGBTQ+ community. Understanding that no two people’s experiences are the same, I am grateful that many of my fears have not turned into reality. Now, 12 years into my career as a JAG, I have met and built lasting relationships with mentors and friends who embody our Air Force ideals of respect and inclusivity. I am happy to say I have also never experienced an issue where my family and I weren’t accepted by an office or a co-worker. I have received numerous performance reports and successfully met multiple promotion boards, without ever feeling like my LGBTQ+ status was even a factor. I would love to say I don’t worry about it anymore, but the landscape of LGBTQ+ issues in our society creates extra challenges that my family will probably always have to navigate. We now have three children, and every time we get ready to move it’s never just about finding the best commute, best neighborhood, or best school district. It is always about our family’s safety first. Where are we going? Will we be safe there? Will we be accepted? By the community, by leadership, by our coworkers? Will the laws of the state recognize my children as my own, or would we be well-advised to adopt our own children? Will they be able to talk about their family in school without consequence? The questions may never cease, but my trust and faith in the JAG Corps and Air Force’s commitment to allowing my wife and me to continue serving with dignity has always been rewarded. One of the best leaders I’ve had in the JAG Corps unintentionally showed me the model of how I hope everyone treats my family, and all LGBTQ+ families in the JAG Corps. We were briefing a brand-new major general commander, and after I got done introducing myself, my boss jumped in to brag about my wife and talk about my children (at the time we had three kids under the age of two). He was proud of my family and wanted the General to know. The briefing continued as planned, and when it ended, we all went back to our office. As soon as we got back to our office, my boss asked me to come into his office, shut his door, and said, “I’m so sorry.” I was so confused. “About what, Sir?” He went on to ask if he overstepped by telling the general I had a wife. He was concerned he had “outed” me without my permission. I let him know that, for me, he did exactly the right thing. He didn’t see me as gay, straight, or other. He didn’t see my family as an LGBTQ+ couple, or our kids as kids with two mommies. He saw us simply as a family, just like any other family, which is all we want to be seen as. Understanding I am sharing this experience because as a first and second-assignment captain I had no idea how something as routine as house-hunting could become so complicated by so many things I didn’t have to consider at the time. I had no idea what people who weren’t “like me” were going through on a regular basis until I experienced it first-hand. In order to support our Airmen and Guardians, we must rise to the challenge as leaders, peers, and subordinates, regardless of our background, to know and understand all our Airmen and Guardians, to support them, and to ensure they understand how integral they are to our Air Force family every day. About the Author Layout by: Thomasa Huffstutler Glossary DADT: Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell - JAG: judge advocate general - JASOC: Judge Advocate Staff Officer Course - LGBTQ+: lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and/or questioning, and more - PCS: permanent change of station - USAFA: United States Air Force Academy -
### https://www.jagreporter.af.mil/Post/Article-View-Post/Article/3431328/pride-month/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.jagreporter.af.mil/Post/Article-View-Post/Article/3431328/pride-month/)One JAG Corps member’s personal journey from being relatively unaffected by LGBTQ+ considerations to a life in which those issues have become and remain paramount, through the lens of an otherwise ordinary part of military life—choosing where to live after a PCS move. Pride Month Pride month offers an opportunity to better get to know the challenges our LGBTQ+ Airmen and Guardians and their families face as they navigate day-to-day life within the Department of the Air Force. Knowing our Airmen and Guardians and creating an environment of support and respect within the JAG Corps is instrumental to mission-readiness, as well as our ongoing recruiting and retention efforts. The following is one JAG Corps member’s personal journey from being relatively unaffected by LGBTQ+ considerations to a life in which those issues have become and remain paramount, through the lens of an otherwise ordinary part of military life—choosing where to live after a PCS move. Repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell I joined the Air Force in 2011. At JASOC, our class was briefed on the repeal of Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell (DADT). At the time, I had a serious boyfriend who I had been dating for two years and who was following me to Alaska for my first assignment. I was aware of DADT, but only on a surface level, as it did not apply to me. The briefing at JASOC was just another drop from the firehose that I mentally tucked away. A couple of years later, that boyfriend became my husband, and I was headed to my second assignment. We decided to move houses in Alaska to have more space and give him a shorter commute to work. We looked online, found a place we liked, toured it, and rented the house. Easy. Fast forward another couple of years, and I received my third assignment, to Eglin Air Force Base, Florida We talked to people about where to live, toured a house virtually, and rented it before we ever set foot in Florida. Even easier. Things didn’t work out between my now ex-husband and me, and we ended up parting ways. As a single woman, I moved into a new house in Florida. My main considerations were rent, pet friendliness, and ease of commute. I looked online, visited a couple places, and moved in. What type of neighborhood am I moving to? Will they accept us as a couple? What if we have kids? Will they be friendly to my family? Same-Sex Couple After two years in Florida, I received my next assignment; I got my dream job teaching at the United States Air Force Academy (USAFA), in Colorado Springs, Colorado. However, this move was a little different. I was moving as a geographically separated spouse who was married to a woman, and fellow AF JAG. My wife still had a year left on her assignment at Joint Base McGuire Dix Lakehurst (JBMDL) in New Jersey. We traveled to Colorado Springs to find a house the day after our wedding. We had previously found a realtor who had about twenty houses ready for us to look at on our two-day, whirlwind, house-hunting tour. This was my fifth house-hunt since joining the Air Force, but this time, everything was different. There were new things to consider, new concerns and uncertainties, and many manymore questions. What type of neighborhood am I moving to? Will they accept us as a couple? What if we have kids? Will they be friendly to my family? When we began asking these questions to our realtor, she ended up crossing a few houses off the list. We were very lucky to have found a realtor so knowledgeable about the areas we needed to avoid. Millions of Questions This was the first time I really thought about how different my life was now, as a part of a same-sex couple. Now I was thinking about a million other things, and had a million more questions to answer. Will being out in the military affect my career? Yes, DADT was repealed, but will my new boss and co-workers accept me and my family, or only tolerate us? What if one of my new co-workers has political or religious views that are opposed to my life and family? Will they still be willing to work with me? I thought: “I’m going to be geographically separated, maybe I will just keep my relationship status private for as long as possible.” It was a terrible feeling to have to consider whether to hide my joy about my brand-new wife. I hadn’t considered any of this before getting married. I was madly in love with her; why wouldn’t I marry her? And why wouldn’t I be proud for people to know it? After moving to USAFA, the unanticipated considerations kept coming up. I thought: “When I introduce myself to my class, do I say anything about my wife? What if one of my cadets believes gay marriage or being gay is wrong? Will I lose all credibility? Will cadets ask to transfer out of my class?” For my first year, I waited until at least mid-semester to use the word “wife,” opting to use “spouse” or “partner” instead. In my second year, I changed tactics. My wife was now stationed at USAFA as well, as the Victims’ Counsel, and I introduced her on day one, just like I would have if she had been my husband. Not only did no cadets ask to transfer out of my class, after the first class of the first day, a cadet stayed late to thank me for treating my family like everyone else’s. She was so grateful to see herself represented by an officer and a professor in such a “normal” way. Inclusivity Some of the million questions I had were based on feeling uncertain about my place in a post-DADT Air Force, but within a society where discrimination and disenfranchisement were and are a reality for many, both inside and outside the LGBTQ+ community. Understanding that no two people’s experiences are the same, I am grateful that many of my fears have not turned into reality. Now, 12 years into my career as a JAG, I have met and built lasting relationships with mentors and friends who embody our Air Force ideals of respect and inclusivity. I am happy to say I have also never experienced an issue where my family and I weren’t accepted by an office or a co-worker. I have received numerous performance reports and successfully met multiple promotion boards, without ever feeling like my LGBTQ+ status was even a factor. I would love to say I don’t worry about it anymore, but the landscape of LGBTQ+ issues in our society creates extra challenges that my family will probably always have to navigate. Understanding that no two people’s experiences are the same, I am grateful that many of my fears have not turned into reality. We now have three children, and every time we get ready to move it’s never just about finding the best commute, best neighborhood, or best school district. It is always about our family’s safety first. Where are we going? Will we be safe there? Will we be accepted? By the community, by leadership, by our coworkers? Will the laws of the state recognize my children as my own, or would we be well-advised to adopt our own children? Will they be able to talk about their family in school without consequence? The questions may never cease, but my trust and faith in the JAG Corps and Air Force’s commitment to allowing my wife and me to continue serving with dignity has always been rewarded. One of the best leaders I’ve had in the JAG Corps unintentionally showed me the model of how I hope everyone treats my family, and all LGBTQ+ families in the JAG Corps. We were briefing a brand-new major general commander, and after I got done introducing myself, my boss jumped in to brag about my wife and talk about my children (at the time we had three kids under the age of two). He was proud of my family and wanted the General to know. The briefing continued as planned, and when it ended, we all went back to our office. As soon as we got back to our office, my boss asked me to come into his office, shut his door, and said, “I’m so sorry.” I was so confused. “About what, Sir?” He went on to ask if he overstepped by telling the general I had a wife. He was concerned he had “outed” me without my permission. I let him know that, for me, he did exactly the right thing. He didn’t see me as gay, straight, or other. He didn’t see my family as an LGBTQ+ couple, or our kids as kids with two mommies. He saw us simply as a family, just like any other family, which is all we want to be seen as. Understanding I am sharing this experience because as a first and second-assignment captain I had no idea how something as routine as house-hunting could become so complicated by so many things I didn’t have to consider at the time. I had no idea what people who weren’t “like me” were going through on a regular basis until I experienced it first-hand. In order to support our Airmen and Guardians, we must rise to the challenge as leaders, peers, and subordinates, regardless of our background, to know and understand all our Airmen and Guardians, to support them, and to ensure they understand how integral they are to our Air Force family every day. About the Author Major Jennifer Lake, USAF (B.S., Rowan University, Glassboro, New Jersey; J.D., Washington & Lee University School of Law, Lexington City, Virginia) is the Chief of Adverse Actions and Operational Law, Air Force District of Washington, Joint Base Andrews, Maryland. Edited by: Captain Victoria Clarke Layout by: Thomasa Huffstutler Glossary DADT: Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell - JAG: judge advocate general - JASOC: Judge Advocate Staff Officer Course - LGBTQ+: lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and/or questioning, and more - PCS: permanent change of station - USAFA: United States Air Force Academy - EXPAND YOUR KNOWLEDGE External Links to Additional Resources JAG Reporter →
## [Air Force Global Strike Command AFSTRAT-AIR](www.afgsc.af.mil): ~48 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://www.afgsc.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=51&ModuleId=6055&Article=3099876


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.afgsc.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=51&ModuleId=6055&Article=3099876)Pride Month inspires LGBTQ+ Initiative Team Pride Month is an opportunity to celebrate the LGBTQ+ community and this year it also sparked the beginning of a group who will foster a deeper understanding of LGBTQ+ people and facilitate positive change toward equity and inclusion. In April 2021, the Air Force developed the Barrier Analysis Working Group, which includes a Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer/Questioning Initiative Team. In May 2022 a group of Malmstrom Airmen came together to form a base-level LIT. “The LIT's biggest strength right now is its existence!” said Lt. Col. Stacy Rankin, 341st Missile Wing chief of safety. “Showing Airmen that an LGBTQ+-centric organization exists on Malmstrom and is proudly visible is important. Visibility is important. Representation is important. No one's alone out there.” With Rankin as their advisor, Malmstrom’s LIT was built by Capt. Michaela Mulokey, 341st Operations Support Squadron Minuteman III intercontinental ballistic missile instructor; Master Sgt. Brittany Pouliot, 341st Civil Engineer Squadron unaccompanied housing superintendent; Staff Sgt. Corey Richardson, 841st Missile Security Forces Squadron missile security controller; his wife, Tori Richardson, a contractor with the 341st Medical Group; and Senior Airman Willow Simmons-Leake, 841st MSFS fire team member. Although their first official meeting wasn’t until June 9, the team hosted several events throughout Pride Month, including weekly coffee talks, panel discussions, a drag trivia night and a Pride festival. “Our goal going into Pride Month was to foster a sense of community and let everyone know we are here,” Mulokey said. “We just wanted to announce our presence and let people know that LGBTQ members are here and that we matter and we face issues that maybe not everyone else faces – but we’re here and we’re willing to serve.” Topics of the coffee talks and panel discussions included: local safe spaces and areas of concern, fun with flags, pronouns, gender vs. sex, transitioning in the military and being LGBTQ+ in the military. “It also gives people the opportunity to learn so that they don’t feel embarrassed by asking questions,” Tori said. The LIT is currently in the process of planning and developing the strategic plan for their team, and beginning in September, they plan to open up their meetings to anyone on base who would like to get involved. So far, the team’s lines of effort include training and education, collecting data and conducting research on the experiences of LGBTQ+ military members and their dependents, removing workplace barriers, partnering with the local community, and promoting an open and understanding environment. “The biggest focus is going to be geared more toward education at all levels,” Corey said. “A lot of the coffee talk topics during the Pride events are what we’re gearing toward and commanders can pull us in to talk about any of the different sections.” “I think there is a sense of unknown still about the community as a whole, so making people more comfortable in having that culture change is of huge importance for us going forward, not just during Pride Month but throughout the year,” Pouliot said. The whole team added that they are, “super stoked,” about what they hope their team will accomplish and would like to let commanders across the base know that beginning in September, they will be available to provide academic products or to lead discussions within squadrons about LGBTQ+ issues. “We’re super excited to see how this grows not only for what we have currently, but for future Airmen or civilians down the line and just the community in general; I’d like to see where this goes,” Tori said.
### https://www.afgsc.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/3099876/pride-month-inspires-lgbtq-initiative-team/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.afgsc.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/3099876/pride-month-inspires-lgbtq-initiative-team/)MALMSTROM AIR FORCE BASE, Mont. -- Pride Month is an opportunity to celebrate the LGBTQ+ community and this year it also sparked the beginning of a group who will foster a deeper understanding of LGBTQ+ people and facilitate positive change toward equity and inclusion. In April 2021, the Air Force developed the Barrier Analysis Working Group, which includes a Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer/Questioning Initiative Team. In May 2022 a group of Malmstrom Airmen came together to form a base-level LIT. “The LIT's biggest strength right now is its existence!” said Lt. Col. Stacy Rankin, 341st Missile Wing chief of safety. “Showing Airmen that an LGBTQ+-centric organization exists on Malmstrom and is proudly visible is important. Visibility is important. Representation is important. No one's alone out there.” With Rankin as their advisor, Malmstrom’s LIT was built by Capt. Michaela Mulokey, 341st Operations Support Squadron Minuteman III intercontinental ballistic missile instructor; Master Sgt. Brittany Pouliot, 341st Civil Engineer Squadron unaccompanied housing superintendent; Staff Sgt. Corey Richardson, 841st Missile Security Forces Squadron missile security controller; his wife, Tori Richardson, a contractor with the 341st Medical Group; and Senior Airman Willow Simmons-Leake, 841st MSFS fire team member. Although their first official meeting wasn’t until June 9, the team hosted several events throughout Pride Month, including weekly coffee talks, panel discussions, a drag trivia night and a Pride festival. “Our goal going into Pride Month was to foster a sense of community and let everyone know we are here,” Mulokey said. “We just wanted to announce our presence and let people know that LGBTQ members are here and that we matter and we face issues that maybe not everyone else faces – but we’re here and we’re willing to serve.” Topics of the coffee talks and panel discussions included: local safe spaces and areas of concern, fun with flags, pronouns, gender vs. sex, transitioning in the military and being LGBTQ+ in the military. “It also gives people the opportunity to learn so that they don’t feel embarrassed by asking questions,” Tori said. The LIT is currently in the process of planning and developing the strategic plan for their team, and beginning in September, they plan to open up their meetings to anyone on base who would like to get involved. So far, the team’s lines of effort include training and education, collecting data and conducting research on the experiences of LGBTQ+ military members and their dependents, removing workplace barriers, partnering with the local community, and promoting an open and understanding environment. “The biggest focus is going to be geared more toward education at all levels,” Corey said. “A lot of the coffee talk topics during the Pride events are what we’re gearing toward and commanders can pull us in to talk about any of the different sections.” “I think there is a sense of unknown still about the community as a whole, so making people more comfortable in having that culture change is of huge importance for us going forward, not just during Pride Month but throughout the year,” Pouliot said. The whole team added that they are, “super stoked,” about what they hope their team will accomplish and would like to let commanders across the base know that beginning in September, they will be available to provide academic products or to lead discussions within squadrons about LGBTQ+ issues. “We’re super excited to see how this grows not only for what we have currently, but for future Airmen or civilians down the line and just the community in general; I’d like to see where this goes,” Tori said.
## [AFLCMC](www.aflcmc.af.mil): ~48 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://www.aflcmc.af.mil/NEWS/Article-Display/Article/3411175/pride-month-hill-afb-celebrates/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.aflcmc.af.mil/NEWS/Article-Display/Article/3411175/pride-month-hill-afb-celebrates/)HILL AIR FORCE BASE – Each June, communities gather and organize events to celebrate Pride Month, both a jubilant communal celebration of visibility and a personal celebration of self-worth and dignity. During LGBTQ+ Pride Month, we recognize the resilience and determination of the many individuals who are fighting to live freely and authentically. In doing so, they are opening hearts and minds and laying the foundation for a more just and equitable America. While Pride is something to be celebrated all year, the month of June was designated ‘Pride Month’ to commemorate the Stonewall uprising that occurred in June 1969, sparking a call to action that continues to inspire us to live up to our Nation’s promise of equality, liberty, and justice for all. The first Pride March took place in June 1970, one year after the events of Stonewall. Now, 53 years later celebrating Pride has remained a time dedicated to the uplifting of LGBTQ+ voices, celebration of LGBTQ+ culture and the support of LGBTQ+ rights. This Pride Month, we recognize the valuable contributions of LGBTQ+ individuals across America, and we reaffirm our commitment to standing in solidarity with LGBTQ+ Americans in their ongoing struggle against discrimination and injustice. The following are just a few LGBTQ+ individuals who left a lasting impact on our society. Sally Ride – The first American woman in space and the first acknowledged gay astronaut. Ride was instrumental in her work with the robotic arm used to help put satellites in space. Along with her partner and three others, she also started the non-profit “Sally Ride Science” with the goal to promote equity and inclusion in STEM for all students. Bayard Rustin – Due to being an openly gay man, Rustin was not in the public eye, but was one of the most influential organizers during the civil rights movement and the logistical planner behind the March on Washington in 1963. A close advisor to Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Bayard taught him of Gandhi’s belief in non-violence and civil disobedience. He went on to focus on LGBTQ+ activism. Edith Windsor – She is known widely for her landmark Supreme Court Case which paved the way for marriage equality. However, her notable contributions as a tech pioneer are far less known. Windsor became the senior systems programmer for IBM due to her top-notch debugging skills and coding abilities and later became president of a PC consulting firm that specialized in major software development projects. She was pivotal in the fight for marriage equality and made major strides in the tech industry. Additionally, it is equally, if not more important to recognize the LGBTQ+ people in our own lives who make a difference to each of us individually every single day. This year’s theme, “Diversity Creates Community,” speaks to the belief that the diversity of the United States is unquestionably one of our greatest strengths. Rather than letting differences divide us, we should recognize that we are stronger together. Harvey Milk, a notable figure in the LGBTQ+ community said it well “All people regardless of sexual orientation or identity, deserve a safe and supportive environment in which to achieve their full potential.” Together we can create a more effective and inclusive community here on Hill AFB and wherever we may go. Hill AFB events Join us this month as we celebrate the contributions, sacrifices, and achievements of the LGBTQ+ community. • June 1 | 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. | Pride Month Opening Event with information booth and food truck(s) at the AAFES Base Exchange. • June 12 | 11:45 a.m. to 2 p.m. | “Diversity Creates Community” Discussion Panel at the building 1289 main conference room. Free lunch provided by the Hill AFB Chapel. ZoomGov link will provided at a later date. • June 21 | 8 a.m. | 5K Color Fun Run starting at the Warrior Fitness Center. Volunteers to staff water/color stations are still needed. • June 29 | 1-2 p.m. |Pride Month Mentorship Panel. ZoomGov link will be provided at a later date. You will also see some employee spotlights throughout the month on Hill’s social media channels, highlighting Hill AFB civilian employees and military members. For more information, call the DEIA office at 801-777-5443 or email 75ABW.DEIA.Workflow@us.af.mil.
### https://www.aflcmc.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=79&ModuleId=22786&Article=3411175


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.aflcmc.af.mil/DesktopModules/ArticleCS/Print.aspx?PortalId=79&ModuleId=22786&Article=3411175)Pride Month: Hill AFB celebrates HILL AIR FORCE BASE – Each June, communities gather and organize events to celebrate Pride Month, both a jubilant communal celebration of visibility and a personal celebration of self-worth and dignity. During LGBTQ+ Pride Month, we recognize the resilience and determination of the many individuals who are fighting to live freely and authentically. In doing so, they are opening hearts and minds and laying the foundation for a more just and equitable America. While Pride is something to be celebrated all year, the month of June was designated ‘Pride Month’ to commemorate the Stonewall uprising that occurred in June 1969, sparking a call to action that continues to inspire us to live up to our Nation’s promise of equality, liberty, and justice for all. The first Pride March took place in June 1970, one year after the events of Stonewall. Now, 53 years later celebrating Pride has remained a time dedicated to the uplifting of LGBTQ+ voices, celebration of LGBTQ+ culture and the support of LGBTQ+ rights. This Pride Month, we recognize the valuable contributions of LGBTQ+ individuals across America, and we reaffirm our commitment to standing in solidarity with LGBTQ+ Americans in their ongoing struggle against discrimination and injustice. The following are just a few LGBTQ+ individuals who left a lasting impact on our society. Sally Ride – The first American woman in space and the first acknowledged gay astronaut. Ride was instrumental in her work with the robotic arm used to help put satellites in space. Along with her partner and three others, she also started the non-profit “Sally Ride Science” with the goal to promote equity and inclusion in STEM for all students. Bayard Rustin – Due to being an openly gay man, Rustin was not in the public eye, but was one of the most influential organizers during the civil rights movement and the logistical planner behind the March on Washington in 1963. A close advisor to Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Bayard taught him of Gandhi’s belief in non-violence and civil disobedience. He went on to focus on LGBTQ+ activism. Edith Windsor – She is known widely for her landmark Supreme Court Case which paved the way for marriage equality. However, her notable contributions as a tech pioneer are far less known. Windsor became the senior systems programmer for IBM due to her top-notch debugging skills and coding abilities and later became president of a PC consulting firm that specialized in major software development projects. She was pivotal in the fight for marriage equality and made major strides in the tech industry. Additionally, it is equally, if not more important to recognize the LGBTQ+ people in our own lives who make a difference to each of us individually every single day. This year’s theme, “Diversity Creates Community,” speaks to the belief that the diversity of the United States is unquestionably one of our greatest strengths. Rather than letting differences divide us, we should recognize that we are stronger together. Harvey Milk, a notable figure in the LGBTQ+ community said it well “All people regardless of sexual orientation or identity, deserve a safe and supportive environment in which to achieve their full potential.” Together we can create a more effective and inclusive community here on Hill AFB and wherever we may go. Hill AFB events Join us this month as we celebrate the contributions, sacrifices, and achievements of the LGBTQ+ community. • June 1 | 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. | Pride Month Opening Event with information booth and food truck(s) at the AAFES Base Exchange. • June 12 | 11:45 a.m. to 2 p.m. | “Diversity Creates Community” Discussion Panel at the building 1289 main conference room. Free lunch provided by the Hill AFB Chapel. ZoomGov link will provided at a later date. • June 21 | 8 a.m. | 5K Color Fun Run starting at the Warrior Fitness Center. Volunteers to staff water/color stations are still needed. • June 29 | 1-2 p.m. |Pride Month Mentorship Panel. ZoomGov link will be provided at a later date. You will also see some employee spotlights throughout the month on Hill’s social media channels, highlighting Hill AFB civilian employees and military members. For more information, call the DEIA office at 801-777-5443 or email 75ABW.DEIA.Workflow@us.af.mil.
## [www.wpafb.af.mil](www.wpafb.af.mil): ~48 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://www.wpafb.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/3786423/wright-patt-pride-month-events-celebrate-diversity-promote-inclusion/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.wpafb.af.mil/News/Article-Display/Article/3786423/wright-patt-pride-month-events-celebrate-diversity-promote-inclusion/)Wright-Patt Pride Month events celebrate diversity, promote inclusion Published May 23, 2024 By Megan Mudersbach 88th Air Base Wing Public Affairs Updated May 31, 2024 The 88th Air Base Wing and special observance committee recognizes LGBTQ+ Pride month. This year's pride theme is "Building a culture of Inclusion." (U.S. Air Force graphic by Wilbur Wood) Photo Details / Download Hi-Res WRIGHT-PATTERSON AIR FORCE BASE, Ohio -- The 88th Air Base Wing will host a series of Pride Month events throughout the end of May and the month of June to celebrate and recognize the diversity of civilian employees and service members across the Department of Defense. Events will include an educational seminar, kickball tournament and a 4K run/walk. This year’s theme is “Building a Culture of Inclusion,” which echoes the Department of the Air Force’s commitment to provide a professional, innovative and globally competitive work environment where all qualified Americans can serve their country. “We want these events to encourage people to take part in fostering an inclusion mindset,” Master Sgt. Darcy Waugaman, committee member and chief of Infrastructure Operations, 88th Communications Squadron, said. “We want to create an environment that’s comfortable to get to know one another and be a safe place to ask questions.” Waugaman said she motivates everyone to surround themselves with people who are unlike them. “It helps us look outside ourselves to learn about people’s experiences and what they have gone through,” she said. “Being a part of the wing’s special observance committee, you can learn a lot no matter the observance, and it emphasizes that we are one team working together.” 88th Air Base Wing Pride Month events: May 28 – LGBTQ Education Seminar – The 88 ABW’s LGBTQ+ Initiative Team (LIT) invites all to join them from noon to 1 p.m. at the USO for a presentation on LGBTQ topics. Local community and base agencies will also have resources available. *This event is open to base personnel. June 7 – Kickball Tournament – Connect with Team Wright-Patt members and celebrate Pride Month during a free kickball tournament from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m. at Area B Softball Fields. Sign-ups close May 31. Register your team at: https://www.signupgenius.com/go/10C094EA8AF2BA2FBC25-49103175-pride#/. For questions, email MSgt Darcy Waugaman, darcy.waugaman@us.af.mil. *This event is open to base personnel. June 28 - Fly with Pride Tie Dye 4K Run/Walk – Join us for a free 4K run/walk from 8 to 10 a.m. at Wright State University parking lot 16 & 17 to celebrate Pride Month. Registration is required. Register at: https://www.signupgenius.com/go/60B0944AAAF2EA0FE3-49251480-thewright?useFullSite=true#/. Location: 3640 Colonel Glen Highway, Fairborn, OH 45324. For questions, email SSgt Gaige Buster, gaige.buster@us.af.mil, TSgt Robert Laichalk, robert.laichalk@us.af.mil, and MSgt Darcy Waugaman, darcy.waugaman@us.af.mil *This event is open to local and base communities. If you are interested in getting involved with a special observance committee, contact EEO Strategy and Integration at 88ABW.DE.ORG@US.AF.MIL. For more information about the AEP, visit https://www.wpafb.af.mil/Units/DEIA/AEP/. The 88th Air Base Wing is hosting a Kickball Tournament on June 7, 2024 at the Area B Softball Fields. The tournament is part of a collection of events hosted by the special observances committee for LGBTQ+ Pride month. This year's pride theme is "Building a culture of Inclusion." (U.S. Air Force graphic by Wilbur Wood) Photo Details / Download Hi-Res The 88th Air Base Wing and Wright State University is hosting a Fly with Pride Tie Dye 4K run/walk on June28, 2024 at Wright State University, 3640 Colonel Glen Highway, Fairborn, OH 45324. The event is part of a collection of events hosted by the special observances committee for LGBTQ+ Pride month. This year's pride theme is "Building a culture of Inclusion." (U.S. Air Force graphic by Wilbur Wood) Photo Details / Download Hi-Res