



# [Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality](ahrq.gov): ~9 pages censored since 1/20/25

## [PSNet](psnet.ahrq.gov): ~9 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://psnet.ahrq.gov/perspective/conversation-connor-wesley-rn-bsn-patient-safety-concerns-and-lgbtq-population


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://psnet.ahrq.gov/perspective/conversation-connor-wesley-rn-bsn-patient-safety-concerns-and-lgbtq-population)In Conversation with... Connor Wesley, RN, BSN on Patient Safety Concerns and the LGBTQ+ Population In Conversation with.. Connor Wesley, RN, BSN on Patient Safety Concerns and the LGBTQ+ Population. PSNet [internet]. 2023.In Conversation with... Connor Wesley, RN, BSN on Patient Safety Concerns and the LGBTQ+ Population. PSNet [internet]. Rockville (MD): Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, US Department of Health and Human Services. 2023. In Conversation with.. Connor Wesley, RN, BSN on Patient Safety Concerns and the LGBTQ+ Population. PSNet [internet]. 2023.In Conversation with... Connor Wesley, RN, BSN on Patient Safety Concerns and the LGBTQ+ Population. PSNet [internet]. Rockville (MD): Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, US Department of Health and Human Services. 2023. Editor’s note: Connor Wesley, RN, BSN, is a registered nurse in Tacoma, WA. In addition to his role as the Assistant Nurse Manager of the Emergency Department at MultiCare Allenmore Hospital, Connor lectures locally and nationally on providing healthcare to members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer or questioning (LGBTQ+) community. We interviewed Connor to discuss patient safety and the LGBTQ+ community. Sarah Mossburg: Welcome, Connor. Can you please tell us a little bit about yourself and describe your current role? Connor Wesley: I am a nurse and have been a nurse for almost 10 years. I am the Assistant Nurse Manager of the Emergency Department at MultiCare Allenmore Hospital. I started in oncology before moving to the emergency room. I am also a graduate student at the University of Washington in the doctorate of nursing practice program studying to become a family nurse practitioner. In addition to my own life experience, my passion for this topic began when I was a nursing student where we received very little education on the LGBTQ+ community, particularly the transgender community, which is more my area of focus. I decided to create a lecture to fill the gap and started giving the lecture to the nursing students while I was still a nursing student. I have been lecturing locally and nationally since then. Sarah Mossburg: Today we are talking about the LGBTQ+ community and patient safety. What do you think are some of the key patient safety issues that the LGBTQ+ community faces? Connor Wesley: It can depend on location. There are places in the country that may be less safe for LGBTQ+ folks to live their normal lives and access healthcare. In the United States, we have the Emergency Medical Treatment & Labor Act, which legally requires that anyone who needs emergency care, receive it until they are stabilized.1 There are additional laws in place in select states that affect access to other types of care. For instance, Arkansas recently passed a law to make it a felony for young trans people under the age of 18 to access gender-affirming care because they view gender-affirming care as not evidence-based, but experimentation.2 Nationally, there are some legal protections for people who are LGBTQ+. For example, in June of 2020, the United States Supreme Court ruled that members of the LGBTQ+ community cannot be fired from a job for being LGBTQ+.3 But that only relates to employment, there are different laws for housing—there are 27 states where housing discrimination can exist for being LGBTQ+ because there are no explicit protections for the LGBTQ+ community.4 When living in a state where being LGBTQ+ can result in loss of housing, it can become even more unsafe to access healthcare. When we talk to our healthcare providers, we talk to them about our biggest stressors because we know that they impact health. When you live in one of those 27 states, you may avoid talking about sexual orientation and gender because of the fear of potentially losing housing because it is not protected. The LGBTQ+ community faces a great deal of health disparities, and a lot of that is rooted in stigma and general views of society about the LGBTQ+ community. That stigma eats away at you. Lack of representation can also eat away at you. Young people need representation to feel like they can be successful in life as adults. For the LGBTQ+ community, not being able to see yourself as a successful adult reflected in somebody else means you don't believe that you can be a successful adult. It can cause maladaptive behaviors. We see higher levels of smoking, drinking, and obesity. As many as 40% of homeless youth are LGBTQ+.5 We see a lot more homelessness, which leads to things like participating in survival sex, or using sex in exchange for safety, housing, food, and basic needs.6 All of these things lead to our massive health disparities. Healthcare may not necessarily be a safe space because providers are human and some providers either don’t recognize or struggle to avoid bringing their bias into their practice. There are invalidations that providers may not realize they are saying based on the power of their words. For example, misgendering people, or choosing not to use names that patients have asked you to use. Another example is when gay mothers take their kids to the doctor and are asked, who is the mom? These things have so much power that I do not think people always realize. Ultimately, as providers, our job is to recognize our biases and overcome them, but many people struggle to avoid bringing their bias into their practice. When that happens, accessing healthcare and expecting to actually get the healthcare LGBTQ+ patients need becomes difficult. When I give my lectures, I hear comments from people talking about colleagues that don’t want to use a patient's name or pronouns because they do not want to enable something that goes against their beliefs of normal. When it comes to healthcare though, their beliefs of normal shouldn’t interfere with someone’s ability to get care. And ultimately, all of this leads to people not wanting to access healthcare. In these cases, easily managed health needs like high blood pressure or diabetes can progress to acute and potentially life-threatening medical conditions. There are other challenges in accessing healthcare and identifying providers. The documentary “Southern Comfort” shares the story of Robert Eads, a trans man who lived in Georgia, was diagnosed with ovarian cancer, but he could not find an oncologist to treat him.7 Providers were afraid that their other patients would not want to receive care from a provider that would care for a trans man. By the time he was able to find a provider to care for him, his cancer was too far progressed and he died from ovarian cancer three years later. Healthcare can be a really scary place for a lot of people. Even I get scared about accessing healthcare, and I am a nurse. I have a great provider and I work in the emergency room. If I need emergency care, I go to the emergency room where I work. I can't imagine going anywhere else, because I am trans and am unsure about the care I would receive elsewhere. I had a health issue at work the other day that required me to check into the emergency room, and even in those moments I have anxiety because my coworkers and the providers I work with are accessing my electronic medical record (EMR). When I tell somebody that I am trans—when I get to come out to them—I get to see their reaction. I get to make sure I know that I’m still safe, and that relationship is still okay. But when someone is reading my chart and I do not see that reaction, I do not know what their feelings are. Further, our EMRs follow us everywhere and can include hurtful words. I know my EMR includes the word “transgenderism,” which many people consider to be offensive because it suggests that you prescribe to a set of ideals or beliefs, rather than this is just who you are.8 In these cases, healthcare is still very fallible. Sarah Mossburg: Some of the key things that I hear you talking about in relation to the patient safety and the LGBTQ+ community, are that it's contextual in terms of region and location in the United States, that care is politicized, and that there is an extreme amount of discrimination across sexual and gender orientations. There is also a significant amount of disparities related to stigma among them, and that there are significant challenges related to emotional, psychological, and physical safety when pursuing and receiving care in healthcare settings. Finally, that there are a lot of downstream effects that lead to poor outcomes among members of this community. You described some challenges in accessing care and issues when in the hospital or different care settings. What about post-care patient safety issues? Do you see any potential patient safety issues in that part of the healthcare continuum? Connor Wesley: I think challenges with post-care is a result of what happens in care or when appropriate care is not received despite a healthcare visit. A lot of the fear that LGBTQ+ have when going to providers is—am I going to be seen as a human? Am I going to get the care I need? People may go to a provider because they have an injury or concern, and providers can only focus on their gender presentation and neglect to talk about a presenting condition like a broken arm. In these cases, members of the LGBTQ+ community are not receiving appropriate care, which results in still having a care need. There is also that trauma of accessing care and feeling that bias and stigma, which can prevent patients from accessing care the next time. It is like a snowball effect—not getting the care needed, or not being treated in a respectful way—leads LGBTQ+ patients to avoid accessing healthcare and getting potentially sicker and sicker. Many trans and nonbinary patients will seek safe emergency rooms and if there are none, then will avoid care and their health issues are not being dealt with. Some LGBTQ+ people, trans people in particular, cannot access the healthcare that they want or need, or aren’t able to afford it. Federal changes in legislation affect what insurance companies do and do not pay for. Not all insurance companies cover gender-affirming care, such as sex reassignment surgery.9 Some employers pay for extra components their insurance plans offer to cover gender-affirming care, but the majority do not. Hormones are expensive and most people will need to pay for them out of pocket. Sarah Mossburg: The LGBTQ+ community describes a broad group of people that have differing challenges and needs when it comes to their health—what are some of the specific challenges or needs that are sometimes overlooked that could result in patient safety issues and adverse events? Connor Wesley: Yes, being part of the LGBTQ+ community is like a tiny window. It's this tiny window of who we are as people, but can color how the majority of the world sees us. I am trans, but I also have high blood pressure and high cholesterol. I was seen in the emergency room that I work in, because I went into atrial fibrillation, and had to be cardioverted to get my heart to beat regularly again. Because I’m trans, if I were somewhere else in the world, or in this country, I may not have felt safe to go to the hospital to get that taken care of. One thing commonly done in healthcare is trans-care hormone replacement therapy. It is done for cisgender women and men who have low testosterone. It is not specialty care, but because patients are in the LGBTQ+ community, people think that our healthcare is specialized. Another example is cancer screenings. When screening for the human papillomavirus (HPV), it is often based on sexual interaction, but providers are often too uncomfortable to ask questions about what types of sex someone is having. While these are simple, although awkward questions, answers will inform if a provider has to worry about if a patient could have HPV. There may not be true specialized care for the LGBTQ+ community because the things that we do are generally no different than the things people do outside the LGBTQ+ community. Members of the LGBTQ+ community tend to be more open about sexual orientation and gender identity because they may be under so much scrutiny. It's the ability to open your mind and see the human in front of you as the components that make up that human—whether they're cisgender or transgender, heterosexual or queer—there is no special care for our community. Sarah Mossburg: We talked about the issues and challenges facing this community. How can healthcare systems address patient safety issues? Connor Wesley: One way to address patient safety is by allowing a person to be seen as who they are and who they love. Many EMRs have sexual orientation and gender identity (SOGI) screens that asks about sexual orientation, which can be important in healthcare. SOGI screens also ask for the name the patient uses versus the name they have, and the pronouns they use. These screens can also include an organ inventory, which every patient would benefit from. Sadly, it is not often used. I once went to urgent care and needed a chest x ray completed. Part of a typical x ray screening is asking if there's any chance you could be pregnant. That would have been a great time to do an organ inventory and find out if people even need to ask this question in the future. I do still have a uterus. So yes, people need to ask me that question. The trans and queer community are ever evolving. We are learning more and more about ourselves, and growing, and changing, and new terms are coming out, and so our language continues to change. We are working on not saying preferred pronouns and preferred name, because preferred implies a preference, not just asking who you are. When I first came out in the 1990s, we used bio-man and bio-woman, instead of cisgender, because the term cisgender didn't exist yet in our vocabulary. Now we would never use bio-man or bio-woman because it implies that someone who isn’t biologically male will never be truly male, for example. Other ways of being supportive include showing overt signs of support to represent that healthcare is a safe space. If all of the imaging in your organization is of straight, white people, only straight, white people are truly going to feel safe in your organization. If your pamphlets don't show people of color, if your pamphlets don't show varying sexual orientations or implied potential sexual orientations, people don't see themselves safe there. Members of the LGBTQ+ community need to see signs that they matter so they can feel safe. For example, I have on my hospital identification badge a heart shaped pride flag. We also have pronoun stickers so that everyone can put their pronouns on their badge, so that people feel safe. Many people have a hard time asking patients what their pronouns are because they feel uncomfortable and awkward about it. Having pronouns available or introducing yourself with pronouns shows that you understand that pronouns matter, and it's safe to share them with me. Clinicians can still have a hard time asking trans men about being pregnant whether it comes to surgery or imaging, but I think education needs to happen on both sides of that fence. The trans community is a traumatized community that is used to people asking from a place of curiosity, and not from a place of care. That trauma hinders the ability to sometimes see when people, like clinicians, are asking for the right reasons, and not for the wrong reasons. In the 1990s and early 2000s, people asked about my genitalia on a regular basis. I had so much internalized shame that I answered those questions and did not set boundaries with those people. I did not feel empowered to say that is a really inappropriate question. I think, as trans men we need to be more comfortable with parts of our bodies that we wish we didn't have and recognize that providers asking if there's any chance you could be pregnant is not a reflection of your gender identity. It's not a reflection of the man that you are. It is a reflection of the body you have and wanting to be open to how you choose to use that body. Another thing is to always understand the why, when asking your patients questions. The number one thing I can tell providers is to make your intentions of support clear. Tell your patients that you are here to support them. I know that people have a huge problem with using they/them pronouns. That is universal. Nobody is good at it right out of the gate. If your patient uses they/them pronouns, tell them that you absolutely support who they are as a human being and be direct that you are not good at using they/them pronouns, but are working on it. Say that if I make a mistake, please correct me, if I do not correct myself. People often hold a lot of tension in our bodies when we are uncomfortable, whether it is because of our own failures or because we are uncomfortable with the situation we are in. When we read the body language of someone else we do not know, we will never be able to read their intentions. We can only read the body language. I can see tension in somebody's body very easily, but I will never understand the reason without them telling me. As a provider, your body language may be tense because you are afraid of making a mistake or hurting my feelings in some way, not because you are uncomfortable with me being trans. I need to hear that. Always making those intentions of support clear with your patients is important. Sarah Mossburg: You've done a great job talking about how care needs to be patient-centered, how communication is so critical in terms of helping people understand what your intentions are, and why you are asking the questions that you are asking. I know that psychological safety is also a really critical condition to ensure safe patient outcomes. How can providers foster psychological safety when caring for patients who are LGBTQ+? Connor Wesley: Understand your why when asking questions. Avoid making assumptions about people and their families, or what cancer screenings they need to have.10 Ask the awkward questions. Figure out how to ask the awkward questions, because you could potentially miss something important in your patient's health. Asking trans men if there is any chance you could be pregnant, and stating that this is absolutely no reflection of your gender, but a reflection of the organs in your body. In those moments of discomfort, always making those intentions of support clear and those intentions of understanding is helpful. The bottom line is understanding that supporting the LGBTQ+ community in healthcare is no different than the way you support the heterosexual, cisgender human. Patient-centered care should always be how we provide care, and representation matters to everybody. Not specific to the LGBTQ+ community, but to everybody in a community, representation matters. We are humans and this tiny thing that is different about us does not need to take up so much space in the world. It doesn't need to be our whole care. This community needs to be seen as people—every November 20th is the Transgender Day of Remembrance to honor the people in the trans community that were murdered because of their gender identity. There is so much stigma. Meyers devised the Minority Stress Model specifically for the LGBTQ+ community.11 This model describes how stigma, internalized homophobia versus external homophobia, and family rejection impacts your mental and physical health. We all have hearts, we all have people we love, we all are beings trying to get through this world with the least amount of trauma that we can, and ideally creating the most amount of good we can. We just want to be seen as humans, so that we can get our blood pressure managed on a regular basis. I am trans, but I am also a grad student. A manager of an emergency department. I am a twin. A dog parent of three. I am a million different things. But the thing I talk about most is being trans because it is the thing that people do not understand the most. Sarah Mossburg: Do you have any thoughts about next steps in this work or other areas of research that should be pursued in this space? Connor Wesley: There is not a lot of research done on the LGBTQ+ community because we're so small. We can do more research on gender-affirming care and youth. Because so many states are starting to make it a felony, we need research to show that gender-affirming care is life-affirming care. Any research that will help the world see us as humans. Sarah Mossburg: That's great. Thank you for taking this time to talk with us. Editor’s note: In this interview we use LGBTQ+ to describe the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer or questioning community. The “+” represents those who are part of the community, but not reflected by LGBTQ. There are many variations of this acronym used in other resources. Transgender refers to people whose gender identity differs from the sex they were assigned at birth (sometimes abbreviated as trans). The term transgender woman (or trans woman) refers to a woman assigned male at birth; transgender man (or trans man) refers to a man assigned female at birth. Cisgender describes people who are not transgender and whose gender is aligned with the sex assigned at birth (sometimes abbreviated as cis). Pronouns are words that are used to refer to a person other than their name; pronouns are viewed as essential, not preferred. Gender-affirming care refers to care and surgical procedures that can help people adjust their bodies to match their gender identity.12 1. Emergency Medical Treatment & Labor Act (EMTALA). Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services. Updated December 5, 2022. Accessed December 7, 2022. https://www.cms.gov/Regulations-and-Guidance/Legislation/EMTALA 2. HB1570 – To Create the Arkansas Save Adolescents from Experimentation (SAFE) Act. Arkansas State Legislature 93rd General Assembly – Regular Session 2021. Accessed December 7, 2022. https://www.arkleg.state.ar.us/Bills/Detail?id=HB1570&ddBienniumSession=2021%2F2021R 3. Bostock V. Clayton County, Georgia, 590 US 1 (2020). 4. Freedom for All Americans. LGBTQ Americans Aren’t Fully Protected From Discrimination in 29 States. Accessed December 7, 2022. https://freedomforallamericans.org/states/ 5. True Colors United. Our issue. Accessed November 14, 2022. https://truecolorsunited.org/our-issue/ 6. Walls NE, Bell S. Correlates of engaging in survival sex among homeless youth and young adults. J Sex Res. 2011;48(5):423-436. doi:10.1080/00224499.2010.501916 7. Southern Comfort. Next Wave Films. Accessed December 7, 2022. https://nextwavefilms.com/southern/index.html 8. Bouman WP. Sumamus exordio: International Journal of Transgender Health. Int J Transgend Health. 2020;21(1):1-2. Published 2020 Jan 8. doi:10.1080/15532739.2020.1709316 9. Transgender health care. Department of Health and Human Services. Accessed December 7, 2022. https://www.healthcare.gov/transgender-health-care/ 10. The Joint Commission. Advancing Effective Communication, Cultural Competence, and Patient- and Family-Centered Care for the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) Community: A Field Guide. The Joint Commission; 2011. https://www.jointcommission.org/-/media/tjc/documents/resources/patient-safety-topics/health-equity/lgbtfieldguide_web_linked_verpdf.pdf 11. Meyer IH. Prejudice, social stress, and mental health in lesbian, gay, and bisexual populations: conceptual issues and research evidence. Psychol Bull. 2003;129(5):674-697. doi:10.1037/0033-2909.129.5.674 12. Sexual & gender minority: Terms and definitions. National Institutes of Health. Accessed December 7, 2022. https://www.edi.nih.gov/people/sep/lgbti/safezone/terminology
### https://psnet.ahrq.gov/perspective/patient-safety-concerns-and-lgbtq-population


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://psnet.ahrq.gov/perspective/patient-safety-concerns-and-lgbtq-population)Patient Safety Concerns and the LGBTQ+ Population Wesley C, Van CM, Mossburg S. Patient Safety Concerns and the LGBTQ+ Population. PSNet [internet]. Rockville (MD): Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, US Department of Health and Human Services. 2023. Wesley C, Van CM, Mossburg S. Patient Safety Concerns and the LGBTQ+ Population. PSNet [internet]. Rockville (MD): Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, US Department of Health and Human Services. 2023. Challenges to Obtaining Needed Patient-Centered and Safe Healthcare for LGBTQ+ People The lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer or questioning (LGBTQ+) community encompasses a diverse community of people who face unique challenges when receiving care for their health. This broad and diverse population comprises individuals who vary in demographic characteristics, including race, ethnicity, generation, religion, and socioeconomic status. Estimates of how much of the United States population identifies as LGBTQ+ vary greatly, although recent surveys show that estimates of this proportion of the population continues to grow, perhaps due to increased efforts to collect accurate survey data from and about LGBTQ+ persons.1 Healthcare Disparities LGBTQ+ community members experience healthcare disparities and inequities associated with various social, cultural, and political factors that manifest throughout the entire lifespan of LGBTQ+ individuals. Members of the LGBTQ+ community are at higher risk for certain mental and physical health conditions.2,3 Meyer’s minority stress theory emphasizes the impact that stressors, such as discrimination, internalized homophobia, and stigmatization have on mental health.4 LGBTQ+ youth are more likely to consider, attempt, and die by suicide than their heterosexual and cisgender peers.5 Studies have also found that LGBTQ+ people experience trauma, including violence and victimization, at higher rates than the general population, and may exhibit a higher prevalence of post-traumatic stress disorder.6 In terms of physical health, disparities in diseases such as human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) are well documented. Studies have also shown that certain cancers disproportionately affect LGBTQ+ populations based on tobacco use, nulliparity, and HIV.7 Challenges to Access to Care Access to care continues to be a challenge for LGBTQ+ people, who may have decreased access to the healthcare they need for a variety of reasons, including lack of health insurance coverage for needed services and tendencies to delay care because of concerns about stigma and bias in the healthcare system. Some of these challenges to access, for example, stigma, stem from heteronormative attitudes imposed by health professionals.8,9 Transgender patients report avoidance or delays in seeking care based on experienced or perceived bias. A survey of LGBTQ+ people about their experiences of discrimination showed that 37% of respondents who identify as gay, lesbian, queer, or bisexual experienced some form of negative and/or discriminatory treatment from a doctor or healthcare provider in the last year; 59% of transgender respondents experienced some form of negative and/or discriminatory treatment from a doctor or healthcare provider in the last year.10 Patient Safety and Communication Concerns Health-Related Risks for LGBTQ+ Patients Although there are known healthcare disparities and access challenges, it is less clear to what extent LGBTQ+ patients are also at risk for harm when being treated within the healthcare system. Known patient safety risks are primarily based on issues communicating with providers and a lack of psychological safety.11 LGBTQ+ patients must feel comfortable enough with their care teams to disclose their private health information to ensure care is being provided appropriately.12 Based on existing literature, it is likely that LGBTQ+ patients who feel unsafe or disavowed in healthcare settings are less likely to disclose private health information to their healthcare teams in multiple healthcare settings. As a result, LGBTQ+ patients may not receive appropriate healthcare, with concomitant consequences for their health and well-being. Communication to Promote Patient Safety Good communication is key to patient safety. Sharing sexual and gender history and personal health information is important in identifying, treating, and diagnosing conditions and preventing adverse events. Patient discomfort in communicating with healthcare providers increases safety risks; the potential for missed screenings, misdiagnoses and a lack of appropriate prevention interventions increases substantially. This challenge can be ameliorated with effective communication and culturally and linguistically appropriate dialogue between LGBTQ+ patients and healthcare workers. Knowing a patient’s gender history is important in laboratory testing and in understanding why lab results may not match standard levels. For example, to avoid an adverse event during diagnostic exams, transgender men may need to be screened for pregnancy prior to receiving an X ray. Lack of awareness of patient health histories and information by provider teams can result in these missed opportunities to discuss testing.13 Role of Psychological Safety Psychological safety is also essential in ensuring safe patient outcomes. Patients must feel that they will not be punished, humiliated or discounted for speaking up with ideas, questions, concerns, or mistakes.14 Compared with non-LGBTQ+ people, LGBTQ+ people are more likely to report that their provider did not believe they were telling the truth (16% vs. 8%), suggested they were personally to blame for a health problem (13% vs. 8%), assumed something about them without asking (21% vs. 11%), and dismissed their concerns (29% vs. 16%).10 Ensuring a psychologically safe environment is essential for improving communication between patients and providers.15 Recommendations to Mitigate Risks, Minimize Adverse Events and Promote Safe Environments Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity (SOGI) Information Collection Collecting SOGI information in electronic health records (EHRs) is one recommendation that may improve the quality of care provided and shed light on the prevalence of safety problems among LGBTQ+ people. 16,[17] The Department of Health and Human Services continues to make the collection of SOGI data a priority and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has noted that collecting SOGI data leads to high-quality care. The White House issued Executive Order 14075 to advance equality for LGBTQ+ individuals, which includes a directive “to advance the responsible and effective collection and use of data on sexual orientation, gender identity, and sex characteristics.” The Office of Management and Budgeting (OMB) issued Recommendations on the Best Practices for the Collection of Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity Data on Federal Statistical Surveys in support of the goals of Executive Order 14075. By asking questions about sexual orientation, gender identity, sex originally listed on birth certificate, names, and pronouns, healthcare workers can be better informed about their patients and provide more patient-centered, compassionate care to LGBTQ+ patients. Accrediting organizations, like The Joint Commission, also emphasize the importance of collecting these data to support aspects of the healthcare system outside of direct patient care, including evaluating the effectiveness of programs, quality improvement efforts, and community outreach initiatives. By collecting patient SOGI information at the initial point of contact, such as registration or admission, health systems can leverage these data to deliver the appropriate types of care needed.18 Studies show that SOGI data are still missing from EHRs most of the time. Continued education and training on collecting SOGI data and emphasizing the importance of the data will improve data collection efforts.18,19 LGBTQ+ Patient-Centered Training Training healthcare workers in providing culturally and linguistically competent care is also paramount to reducing potential harm toward LGBTQ+ patients. The LGBTQ+ population has unique healthcare needs for which many medical professionals have not received training. Medical schools are beginning to include transgender medicine in their curricula, but there is a shortage of providers with the training and experience that transgender patients need. Federal agencies like the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) created trainings with the goal of teaching providers how to deliver patient-centered care in a psychologically safe environment. Trainings for health professionals about providing a safe and inclusive environment for patients could facilitate the implementation of more effective communication approaches among providers that would promote increased patient disclosures, ultimately leading to better care. Quality Improvement Initiatives Researchers at the CDC led a quality improvement initiative using elements from the Practice Improvement Collaboratives and Project ECHO (Extension for Community Health Outcomes) that aimed to transform primary care for LGBTQ+ people. Participating Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs) implemented quality improvement initiatives to create more safe care spaces, improve SOGI data collection in the EHR, improve the collection of risk-based sexual histories of LGBTQ+ people for sexually transmitted disease (STD) and HIV screenings, and increase the percentage of LGBTQ+ patients receiving appropriate STD and HIV screenings. By creating new workflows for data collection and providing scripts for answering patient questions, the participating FQHCs were able to increase documentation of SOGI data.20 This initiative provides a prospective model of care that addresses issues of communication and safety that could be applied by healthcare teams in healthcare settings to provide a context for better healthcare for LGBTQ+ patients. Looking Forward Although research to understand the healthcare needs of LGBTQ+ patients and associated disparities in care has increased substantially over the last 15 years, there continues to be a need to understand the specific harms and adverse events that members of the LGBTQ+ population may encounter when accessing healthcare services.21 An appropriate and comprehensive approach to promoting safer healthcare environments and better healthcare outcomes for LGBTQ+ patients would include the mitigation of risk, prevention of adverse events and promotion of a safe climate through (1) accurate SOGI data collection; (2) provision of culturally and linguistically competent training of healthcare providers; and (3) the implementation of effective quality improvement initiatives. There continues to be progress in provider education and increasing awareness of healthcare gaps facing the LGBTQ+ community. Improving data collection and fostering environments of psychological safety and patient-centered communication, where patients feel comfortable and safe sharing information, will help us to create more inclusive healthcare settings and promote safe care for all.13 Editor’s note: This essay uses LGBTQ+ to describe the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer or questioning community. The “+” represents those who are part of the community, but not reflected by LGBTQ. There are many variations of this acronym used in other resources. Transgender refers to people whose gender identity differs from the sex they were assigned at birth (sometimes abbreviated as trans). Cisgender describes people who are not transgender and whose gender is aligned with the sex assigned at birth (sometimes abbreviated as cis).22 References 1. Margolies L, Brown CG. Increasing cultural competence with LGBTQ patients. Nursing. 2019;49(6):34-40. doi:10.1097/01.NURSE.0000558088.77604.24 2. Institute of Medicine. The Health of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender People: Building a Foundation for Better Understanding. The National Academies Press; 2011. https://nap.nationalacademies.org/catalog/13128/the-health-of-lesbian-gay-bisexual-and-transgender-people-building 3. Zeeman L, Sherriff N, Browne K, et al. A review of lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans and intersex (LGBTI) health and healthcare inequalities. Eur J Public Health. 2019;29(5):974-980. doi:10.1093/eurpub/cky226 4. Meyer IH. Minority stress and mental health in gay men. J Health Soc Behav. 1995;36(1):38-56. 5. Berona J, Horwitz AG, Czyz EK, et al. Predicting suicidal behavior among lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender youth receiving psychiatric emergency services. J Psychiatr Res. 2020;122:64-69. doi:10.1016/j.jpsychires.2019.12.007 6. Livingston NA, Berke D, Scholl J, et al. Addressing diversity in PTSD treatment: clinical considerations and guidance for the treatment of PTSD in LGBTQ populations. Curr Treat Options Psychiatry. 2020;7(2):53-69. doi:10.1007/s40501-020-00204-0 7. Baker K. Abstract IA12: Cancer in LGBT populations: differences, disparities, and strategies for change. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev. 2020;29(suppl 12):IA12. doi:10.1158/1538-7755.DISP20-IA12 8. Alencar Albuquerque G, de Lima Garcia C, da Silva Quirino G, et al. Access to health services by lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender persons: systematic literature review. BMC Int Health Hum Rights. 2016;16:2. doi:10.1186/s12914-015-0072-9 9. Ramsey ZS, Davidov DM, Levy CB, et al. An etic view of LGBTQ healthcare: barriers to access according to healthcare providers and researchers. J Gay Lesbian Soc Serv. 2022;34(4):502-520. doi:10.1080/10538720.2022.2042452 10. Mahowald L, Brady M, Medina C. Discrimination and experiences among LGBTQ people in the U.S.: 2020 survey results. Center for American Progress; 2021. Accessed November 2, 2022. https://www.americanprogress.org/article/discrimination-experiences-among-lgbtq-people-us-2020-survey-results/ 11. Heredia D Jr, Pankey TL, Gonzalez CA. LGBTQ-Affirmative Behavioral Health Services in Primary Care. Prim Care. 2021;48(2):243-257. doi:10.1016/j.pop.2021.02.005 12. Braybrook D, Bristowe K, Timmins L, et al. Communication about sexual orientation and gender between clinicians, LGBT+ people facing serious illness and their significant others: a qualitative interview study of experiences, preferences and recommendations. BMJ Quality & Safety. Published Online First: 31 August 2022. doi: 10.1136/bmjqs-2022-014792 13. Schabath MB, Curci MB, Kanetsky PA, et al. Ask and tell: the importance of the collection of sexual orientation and gender identity data to improve the quality of cancer care for sexual and gender minorities. J Oncol Pract. 2017; 13(8):542-546. doi:10.1200/JOP.2017.024281 14. Cunningham G, Pickett A, Lee W, et al. Free to be me: psychological safety and expression of sexual orientation personal identity. In: Hargreaves J, Anderson E, eds. Routledge Handbook of Sport, Gender and Sexuality. 1st ed. Routledge; 2014. 15. Reynolds CM. Safe healthcare for all patients: voices of the LGBTQ community seeking safe and inclusive care. Patient Saf. 2020;2(1):64-71. 16. Cahill SR, Baker K, Deutsch MB, et al. Inclusion of sexual orientation and gender identity in stage 3 meaningful use guidelines: a huge step forward for LGBT health. LGBT Health. 2016;3(2):100-102. doi:10.1089/lgbt.2015.0136 [17]. Cahill S, Singal R, Grasso C, et al. Do ask, do tell: high levels of acceptability by patients of routine collection of sexual orientation and gender identity data in four diverse American community health centers. PLoS One. 2014;9(9):e107104. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0107104 18. The Joint Commission. Advancing Effective Communication, Cultural Competence, and Patient- and Family-Centered Care for the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) Community: A Field Guide. The Joint Commission; 2011. https://www.jointcommission.org/-/media/tjc/documents/resources/patient-safety-topics/health-equity/lgbtfieldguide_web_linked_verpdf.pdf 19. Grasso C, Goldhammer H, Funk D, et al. Required sexual orientation and gender identity reporting by U.S. health centers: first-year data. Am J Public Health. 2019;109(8):1111-1118. doi:10.2105/AJPH.2019.305130 20. Furness BW, Goldhammer H, Montalvo W, et al. Transforming primary care for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender people: a collaborative quality improvement initiative. Ann Fam Med. 2020;18(4):292-302. doi:10.1370/afm.2542 21. Bonvicini KA. LGBT healthcare disparities: what progress have we made? Patient Educ Couns. 2017;100(12):2357-2361. doi:10.1016/j.pec.2017.06.003 22. Sexual & gender minority: Terms and definitions. National Institutes of Health. Accessed December 7, 2022. https://www.edi.nih.gov/people/sep/lgbti/safezone/terminology
### https://psnet.ahrq.gov/perspective/patient-safety-concerns-and-lgbtq-population?page=1


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://psnet.ahrq.gov/perspective/patient-safety-concerns-and-lgbtq-population?page=1)Patient Safety Concerns and the LGBTQ+ Population Wesley C, Van CM, Mossburg S. Patient Safety Concerns and the LGBTQ+ Population. PSNet [internet]. Rockville (MD): Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, US Department of Health and Human Services. 2023. Wesley C, Van CM, Mossburg S. Patient Safety Concerns and the LGBTQ+ Population. PSNet [internet]. Rockville (MD): Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, US Department of Health and Human Services. 2023. Challenges to Obtaining Needed Patient-Centered and Safe Healthcare for LGBTQ+ People The lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer or questioning (LGBTQ+) community encompasses a diverse community of people who face unique challenges when receiving care for their health. This broad and diverse population comprises individuals who vary in demographic characteristics, including race, ethnicity, generation, religion, and socioeconomic status. Estimates of how much of the United States population identifies as LGBTQ+ vary greatly, although recent surveys show that estimates of this proportion of the population continues to grow, perhaps due to increased efforts to collect accurate survey data from and about LGBTQ+ persons.1 Healthcare Disparities LGBTQ+ community members experience healthcare disparities and inequities associated with various social, cultural, and political factors that manifest throughout the entire lifespan of LGBTQ+ individuals. Members of the LGBTQ+ community are at higher risk for certain mental and physical health conditions.2,3 Meyer’s minority stress theory emphasizes the impact that stressors, such as discrimination, internalized homophobia, and stigmatization have on mental health.4 LGBTQ+ youth are more likely to consider, attempt, and die by suicide than their heterosexual and cisgender peers.5 Studies have also found that LGBTQ+ people experience trauma, including violence and victimization, at higher rates than the general population, and may exhibit a higher prevalence of post-traumatic stress disorder.6 In terms of physical health, disparities in diseases such as human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) are well documented. Studies have also shown that certain cancers disproportionately affect LGBTQ+ populations based on tobacco use, nulliparity, and HIV.7 Challenges to Access to Care Access to care continues to be a challenge for LGBTQ+ people, who may have decreased access to the healthcare they need for a variety of reasons, including lack of health insurance coverage for needed services and tendencies to delay care because of concerns about stigma and bias in the healthcare system. Some of these challenges to access, for example, stigma, stem from heteronormative attitudes imposed by health professionals.8,9 Transgender patients report avoidance or delays in seeking care based on experienced or perceived bias. A survey of LGBTQ+ people about their experiences of discrimination showed that 37% of respondents who identify as gay, lesbian, queer, or bisexual experienced some form of negative and/or discriminatory treatment from a doctor or healthcare provider in the last year; 59% of transgender respondents experienced some form of negative and/or discriminatory treatment from a doctor or healthcare provider in the last year.10 Patient Safety and Communication Concerns Health-Related Risks for LGBTQ+ Patients Although there are known healthcare disparities and access challenges, it is less clear to what extent LGBTQ+ patients are also at risk for harm when being treated within the healthcare system. Known patient safety risks are primarily based on issues communicating with providers and a lack of psychological safety.11 LGBTQ+ patients must feel comfortable enough with their care teams to disclose their private health information to ensure care is being provided appropriately.12 Based on existing literature, it is likely that LGBTQ+ patients who feel unsafe or disavowed in healthcare settings are less likely to disclose private health information to their healthcare teams in multiple healthcare settings. As a result, LGBTQ+ patients may not receive appropriate healthcare, with concomitant consequences for their health and well-being. Communication to Promote Patient Safety Good communication is key to patient safety. Sharing sexual and gender history and personal health information is important in identifying, treating, and diagnosing conditions and preventing adverse events. Patient discomfort in communicating with healthcare providers increases safety risks; the potential for missed screenings, misdiagnoses and a lack of appropriate prevention interventions increases substantially. This challenge can be ameliorated with effective communication and culturally and linguistically appropriate dialogue between LGBTQ+ patients and healthcare workers. Knowing a patient’s gender history is important in laboratory testing and in understanding why lab results may not match standard levels. For example, to avoid an adverse event during diagnostic exams, transgender men may need to be screened for pregnancy prior to receiving an X ray. Lack of awareness of patient health histories and information by provider teams can result in these missed opportunities to discuss testing.13 Role of Psychological Safety Psychological safety is also essential in ensuring safe patient outcomes. Patients must feel that they will not be punished, humiliated or discounted for speaking up with ideas, questions, concerns, or mistakes.14 Compared with non-LGBTQ+ people, LGBTQ+ people are more likely to report that their provider did not believe they were telling the truth (16% vs. 8%), suggested they were personally to blame for a health problem (13% vs. 8%), assumed something about them without asking (21% vs. 11%), and dismissed their concerns (29% vs. 16%).10 Ensuring a psychologically safe environment is essential for improving communication between patients and providers.15 Recommendations to Mitigate Risks, Minimize Adverse Events and Promote Safe Environments Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity (SOGI) Information Collection Collecting SOGI information in electronic health records (EHRs) is one recommendation that may improve the quality of care provided and shed light on the prevalence of safety problems among LGBTQ+ people. 16,[17] The Department of Health and Human Services continues to make the collection of SOGI data a priority and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has noted that collecting SOGI data leads to high-quality care. The White House issued Executive Order 14075 to advance equality for LGBTQ+ individuals, which includes a directive “to advance the responsible and effective collection and use of data on sexual orientation, gender identity, and sex characteristics.” The Office of Management and Budgeting (OMB) issued Recommendations on the Best Practices for the Collection of Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity Data on Federal Statistical Surveys in support of the goals of Executive Order 14075. By asking questions about sexual orientation, gender identity, sex originally listed on birth certificate, names, and pronouns, healthcare workers can be better informed about their patients and provide more patient-centered, compassionate care to LGBTQ+ patients. Accrediting organizations, like The Joint Commission, also emphasize the importance of collecting these data to support aspects of the healthcare system outside of direct patient care, including evaluating the effectiveness of programs, quality improvement efforts, and community outreach initiatives. By collecting patient SOGI information at the initial point of contact, such as registration or admission, health systems can leverage these data to deliver the appropriate types of care needed.18 Studies show that SOGI data are still missing from EHRs most of the time. Continued education and training on collecting SOGI data and emphasizing the importance of the data will improve data collection efforts.18,19 LGBTQ+ Patient-Centered Training Training healthcare workers in providing culturally and linguistically competent care is also paramount to reducing potential harm toward LGBTQ+ patients. The LGBTQ+ population has unique healthcare needs for which many medical professionals have not received training. Medical schools are beginning to include transgender medicine in their curricula, but there is a shortage of providers with the training and experience that transgender patients need. Federal agencies like the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) created trainings with the goal of teaching providers how to deliver patient-centered care in a psychologically safe environment. Trainings for health professionals about providing a safe and inclusive environment for patients could facilitate the implementation of more effective communication approaches among providers that would promote increased patient disclosures, ultimately leading to better care. Quality Improvement Initiatives Researchers at the CDC led a quality improvement initiative using elements from the Practice Improvement Collaboratives and Project ECHO (Extension for Community Health Outcomes) that aimed to transform primary care for LGBTQ+ people. Participating Federally Qualified Health Centers (FQHCs) implemented quality improvement initiatives to create more safe care spaces, improve SOGI data collection in the EHR, improve the collection of risk-based sexual histories of LGBTQ+ people for sexually transmitted disease (STD) and HIV screenings, and increase the percentage of LGBTQ+ patients receiving appropriate STD and HIV screenings. By creating new workflows for data collection and providing scripts for answering patient questions, the participating FQHCs were able to increase documentation of SOGI data.20 This initiative provides a prospective model of care that addresses issues of communication and safety that could be applied by healthcare teams in healthcare settings to provide a context for better healthcare for LGBTQ+ patients. Looking Forward Although research to understand the healthcare needs of LGBTQ+ patients and associated disparities in care has increased substantially over the last 15 years, there continues to be a need to understand the specific harms and adverse events that members of the LGBTQ+ population may encounter when accessing healthcare services.21 An appropriate and comprehensive approach to promoting safer healthcare environments and better healthcare outcomes for LGBTQ+ patients would include the mitigation of risk, prevention of adverse events and promotion of a safe climate through (1) accurate SOGI data collection; (2) provision of culturally and linguistically competent training of healthcare providers; and (3) the implementation of effective quality improvement initiatives. There continues to be progress in provider education and increasing awareness of healthcare gaps facing the LGBTQ+ community. Improving data collection and fostering environments of psychological safety and patient-centered communication, where patients feel comfortable and safe sharing information, will help us to create more inclusive healthcare settings and promote safe care for all.13 Editor’s note: This essay uses LGBTQ+ to describe the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer or questioning community. The “+” represents those who are part of the community, but not reflected by LGBTQ. There are many variations of this acronym used in other resources. Transgender refers to people whose gender identity differs from the sex they were assigned at birth (sometimes abbreviated as trans). Cisgender describes people who are not transgender and whose gender is aligned with the sex assigned at birth (sometimes abbreviated as cis).22 References 1. Margolies L, Brown CG. Increasing cultural competence with LGBTQ patients. Nursing. 2019;49(6):34-40. doi:10.1097/01.NURSE.0000558088.77604.24 2. Institute of Medicine. The Health of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender People: Building a Foundation for Better Understanding. The National Academies Press; 2011. https://nap.nationalacademies.org/catalog/13128/the-health-of-lesbian-gay-bisexual-and-transgender-people-building 3. Zeeman L, Sherriff N, Browne K, et al. A review of lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans and intersex (LGBTI) health and healthcare inequalities. Eur J Public Health. 2019;29(5):974-980. doi:10.1093/eurpub/cky226 4. Meyer IH. Minority stress and mental health in gay men. J Health Soc Behav. 1995;36(1):38-56. 5. Berona J, Horwitz AG, Czyz EK, et al. Predicting suicidal behavior among lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender youth receiving psychiatric emergency services. J Psychiatr Res. 2020;122:64-69. doi:10.1016/j.jpsychires.2019.12.007 6. Livingston NA, Berke D, Scholl J, et al. Addressing diversity in PTSD treatment: clinical considerations and guidance for the treatment of PTSD in LGBTQ populations. Curr Treat Options Psychiatry. 2020;7(2):53-69. doi:10.1007/s40501-020-00204-0 7. Baker K. Abstract IA12: Cancer in LGBT populations: differences, disparities, and strategies for change. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev. 2020;29(suppl 12):IA12. doi:10.1158/1538-7755.DISP20-IA12 8. Alencar Albuquerque G, de Lima Garcia C, da Silva Quirino G, et al. Access to health services by lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender persons: systematic literature review. BMC Int Health Hum Rights. 2016;16:2. doi:10.1186/s12914-015-0072-9 9. Ramsey ZS, Davidov DM, Levy CB, et al. An etic view of LGBTQ healthcare: barriers to access according to healthcare providers and researchers. J Gay Lesbian Soc Serv. 2022;34(4):502-520. doi:10.1080/10538720.2022.2042452 10. Mahowald L, Brady M, Medina C. Discrimination and experiences among LGBTQ people in the U.S.: 2020 survey results. Center for American Progress; 2021. Accessed November 2, 2022. https://www.americanprogress.org/article/discrimination-experiences-among-lgbtq-people-us-2020-survey-results/ 11. Heredia D Jr, Pankey TL, Gonzalez CA. LGBTQ-Affirmative Behavioral Health Services in Primary Care. Prim Care. 2021;48(2):243-257. doi:10.1016/j.pop.2021.02.005 12. Braybrook D, Bristowe K, Timmins L, et al. Communication about sexual orientation and gender between clinicians, LGBT+ people facing serious illness and their significant others: a qualitative interview study of experiences, preferences and recommendations. BMJ Quality & Safety. Published Online First: 31 August 2022. doi: 10.1136/bmjqs-2022-014792 13. Schabath MB, Curci MB, Kanetsky PA, et al. Ask and tell: the importance of the collection of sexual orientation and gender identity data to improve the quality of cancer care for sexual and gender minorities. J Oncol Pract. 2017; 13(8):542-546. doi:10.1200/JOP.2017.024281 14. Cunningham G, Pickett A, Lee W, et al. Free to be me: psychological safety and expression of sexual orientation personal identity. In: Hargreaves J, Anderson E, eds. Routledge Handbook of Sport, Gender and Sexuality. 1st ed. Routledge; 2014. 15. Reynolds CM. Safe healthcare for all patients: voices of the LGBTQ community seeking safe and inclusive care. Patient Saf. 2020;2(1):64-71. 16. Cahill SR, Baker K, Deutsch MB, et al. Inclusion of sexual orientation and gender identity in stage 3 meaningful use guidelines: a huge step forward for LGBT health. LGBT Health. 2016;3(2):100-102. doi:10.1089/lgbt.2015.0136 [17]. Cahill S, Singal R, Grasso C, et al. Do ask, do tell: high levels of acceptability by patients of routine collection of sexual orientation and gender identity data in four diverse American community health centers. PLoS One. 2014;9(9):e107104. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0107104 18. The Joint Commission. Advancing Effective Communication, Cultural Competence, and Patient- and Family-Centered Care for the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) Community: A Field Guide. The Joint Commission; 2011. https://www.jointcommission.org/-/media/tjc/documents/resources/patient-safety-topics/health-equity/lgbtfieldguide_web_linked_verpdf.pdf 19. Grasso C, Goldhammer H, Funk D, et al. Required sexual orientation and gender identity reporting by U.S. health centers: first-year data. Am J Public Health. 2019;109(8):1111-1118. doi:10.2105/AJPH.2019.305130 20. Furness BW, Goldhammer H, Montalvo W, et al. Transforming primary care for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender people: a collaborative quality improvement initiative. Ann Fam Med. 2020;18(4):292-302. doi:10.1370/afm.2542 21. Bonvicini KA. LGBT healthcare disparities: what progress have we made? Patient Educ Couns. 2017;100(12):2357-2361. doi:10.1016/j.pec.2017.06.003 22. Sexual & gender minority: Terms and definitions. National Institutes of Health. Accessed December 7, 2022. https://www.edi.nih.gov/people/sep/lgbti/safezone/terminology
### https://psnet.ahrq.gov/psnet-collection?f%5B0%5D=approach_safety%3A4932


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://psnet.ahrq.gov/psnet-collection?f%5B0%5D=approach_safety%3A4932)The PSNet Collection: All Content Search All Content North American Partners in Anesthesia (NAPA) is a nationwide anesthesia practice with more than 450 facilities in 21 states. NAPA employs anesthesiologists, certified registered nurse anesthetists, and certified anesthesiologist assistants. Addressing diagnostic errors to improve outcomes and patient safety has long been a problem in the US healthcare system.1 Many methods of reducing diagnostic error focus on individual factors and single cases, instead of focusing on the contribution of system factors or looking at diagnostic errors across a disease or clinical condition. Instead of addressing individual cases, KP sought to improve the disease diagnosis process and systems. The goal was to address the systemic root cause issues in systems that lead to diagnostic errors. Patient safety indicators are tools used to assess the frequency, severity, and impact of potential harms in health care, both within health care organizations and at the health care system, regional, and national levels. This primer describes how patient safety indicators are applied in acute, ambulatory, and post-acute care settings and how these indicators are being incorporated into new federal healthcare quality measurement initiatives. This piece discusses patient safety concerns among members of the LGBTQ+ community which may inhibit access to needed healthcare and potential ways to provide patient-centered care and mitigate the risk of adverse events. Connor Wesley, RN, BSN, is a registered nurse in Tacoma, WA. In addition to his role as the Assistant Nurse Manager of the Emergency Department at MultiCare Allenmore Hospital, Connor lectures locally and nationally on providing healthcare to members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer or questioning (LGBTQ+) community. We interviewed Connor to discuss patient safety and the LGBTQ+ community. This collaborative piece with the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services discusses the current state of patient safety measurement, advancements in measuring patient safety, and explores future directions. Michelle Schreiber, MD, is the Deputy Director of the Center for Clinical Standards and Quality and the Director of the Quality Measurement and Value-Based Incentives Group at the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services. We spoke with her about measuring patient safety, the CMS National Quality Strategy, and the future of measurement.
## [Integrating Behavioral Health & Primary CareAHRQ Academy](integrationacademy.ahrq.gov): ~9 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://integrationacademy.ahrq.gov/news-and-events/news/health-equity-lgbtq-patients-integrated-care-settings-promotion-resources?_gl=1*1caqajk*_ga*NzA1MjE1Mjc1LjE3MTUwMTYyMzk.*_ga_45NDTD15CJ*MTcxODM3OTQ5Mi42LjAuMTcxODM3OTQ5Mi42MC4wLjA.


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://integrationacademy.ahrq.gov/news-and-events/news/health-equity-lgbtq-patients-integrated-care-settings-promotion-resources?_gl=1*1caqajk*_ga*NzA1MjE1Mjc1LjE3MTUwMTYyMzk.*_ga_45NDTD15CJ*MTcxODM3OTQ5Mi42LjAuMTcxODM3OTQ5Mi42MC4wLjA.)LGBTQ youth and adults report more experiences of trauma-related events compared to their straight, cisgender peers, often due to experiences of discrimination and victimization based on sexual orientation or gender identity, placing them at a higher risk of suicide.[1],[2],[3] Trauma and Suicide Risk Among LGBTQ Youth - This infographic, created by the National Institute for Health Care Management (NIHCM) Foundation, in partnership with The Trevor Project, explores trauma and suicide risk among LGBTQ youth. - Suicide Risk and Prevention for LGBTQ People - This report, created by the National LGBT Health Education Center, explores what is known about suicidal behavior and risk among LGBTQ people. - These resources also provide solutions and strategies for supporting LGBTQ patients and reducing health disparities, including improving access to LGBTQ and gender-affirming health services. Not sure where to start? These Centers of Excellence on LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health Equity resources can help you promote a safe and accepting integrated care setting. Language Guidance When Serving LGBTQ+ Populations - This document outlines the most recent language used in LGBTQ+ communities, including outdated language, updated language, and why each is important. - Practice Considerations: Use of the SBIRT Model Among Transgender & Nonbinary Populations - This document provides practice guidance for the utilization of the Screening, Brief Intervention, and Referral to Treatment (SBIRT) model with transgender and nonbinary populations. - For more information see: The Trevor Project: Facts About LGBTQ Youth Suicide - [1] The Trevor Project and National Institute for Health Care Management Foundation. Trauma and suicide risk among lgbtq youth. Washington, DC: The Trevor Project, 2022 July. Available from https://nihcm.org/publications/trauma-and-suicide-risk-among-lgbtq-youth. Accessed on August 22, 2022. [2] Hottes TS, Bogaert L, Rhodes AE, Brennan DJ, Gesink D. Lifetime prevalence of suicide attempts among sexual minority adults by study sampling strategies: A systematic review and meta-analysis.Am J Public Health. 2016 May;106(5):e1-12. https://doi.org/10.2105/AJPH.2016.303088. Accessed August 20, 2022. [3] National Alliance on Mental Illness. LGBTQI. Accessed on August 22, 2022. https://www.nami.org/Your-Journey/Identity-and-Cultural-Dimensions/LGBTQI
### https://integrationacademy.ahrq.gov/products/substance-use-resources/environmental-scan/substance-use-tools?utm_source=ahrq&utm_medium=en-3&utm_term=Opioid_Collection&utm_content=3&utm_campaign=ahrq_en10_01_2019&page=11


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://integrationacademy.ahrq.gov/products/substance-use-resources/environmental-scan/substance-use-tools?utm_source=ahrq&utm_medium=en-3&utm_term=Opioid_Collection&utm_content=3&utm_campaign=ahrq_en10_01_2019&page=11)Substance Use Tools & Resources This collection of tools and resources is for providers, staff, and patients who offer or use services to address substance use, and other interested stakeholders. This collection was originally established following an environmental scan on implementing medication-assisted treatment (MAT) for opioid use disorder (OUD) in rural primary care. (See PDFs of Volume 1 [PDF 0.69 MB] and Volume 2 [PDF 1.28 MB] of that scan). Items have been continuously added to this collection since then, and the collection has expanded to cover substance use more broadly, rather than just MAT for OUD. Displaying 111 - 120 of 912 This fact sheet provides healthcare providers and people who use drugs with an overview of fentanyl and fentanyl test strips to prevent overdose. Other harm reduction strategies are also provided. Format Fact Sheet/Brochure Audience Medical Providers Behavioral Health Providers Other Team Members Patients Families Source California Department of Public Health Year Resource Type PDF Global Health and Substance Use This NIDA web page includes information and resources on substance use at the global level. Format Web Page Audience States Policymakers and Payers Other Team Members Source National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) Year Resource Type Web Page Harm Reduction as a Trauma-Informed Approach to Substance Use - A Guide for Primary Care Providers This guide provides information and strategies to primary care providers on harm reduction as a trauma informed approach to treating individuals with substance use disorder. Format Guide Audience Medical Providers Behavioral Health Providers Source National Association of County and City Health Officials (NACCHO) Year Resource Type PDF Health Equity Guiding Principles for Inclusive Communication These principles from the CDC are intended to help public health professionals, particularly health communicators, within and outside of CDC ensure their communication products and strategies adapt to the specific cultural, linguistic, environmental, and historical situation of each population or audience of focus. Format Toolkit Audience Medical Providers Behavioral Health Providers Other Team Members Source Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Year Resource Type Web Page Impairment Recognition and Response Training for Supervisors This training provides frontline supervisors, safety professionals and managers with the knowledge and skills to recognize and respond to perceived impairment in the workplace, no matter the cause. Format Web-Based Course Audience Other Team Members First Responders Source National Safety Council (NSC) Year Resource Type Web Page Integrated Behavioral Health Care for Older Adults This practice guide provides primary care practices with actionable, evidence-based guidance on the nuances of integrated care for the behavioral health needs of older adults, including needs related to substance use. Format Guide Audience Medical Providers Behavioral Health Providers Source American Medical Association (AMA) Year Resource Type PDF Integrated Behavioral Health Lexicon (Revised) The aim of the Lexicon is to describe the functions which define integrated behavioral health in primary care practices to clarify what to implement and what to expect. Format Report/Paper/Issue Brief Audience Medical Providers Behavioral Health Providers Other Team Members Patients Families Communities Policymakers and Payers Source Agency of Healthcare Quality and Research (AHRQ) Integration Academy Year Resource Type Web Page Involuntary Commitment: Ethics at the Nexus of Mental Health Care and Homelessness This Issue Brief will discuss some interpersonal practices and communication strategies that clinicians can incorporate to lessen the trauma involved in involuntary commitment, and look at some considerations for structural and systemic change. Format Report/Paper/Issue Brief Audience Communities Policymakers and Payers Medical Providers Behavioral Health Providers Source National Health Care for the Homeless Council Year Resource Type PDF LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health Equity Center of Excellence This training provides behavioral health professionals with vital information regarding treatment for individuals in the LGBTQ+ community. The training highlights health disparities and unmet needs in the LGBTQ community and best practices for practitioners. Format Web Page Audience Medical Providers Behavioral Health Providers Other Team Members Source Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) Year Resource Type Web Page LGBTQ+ Populations and Substance Use This NIDA web page includes on an overview of available research on substance use among the LGBTQ+ population. Format Web Page Audience Medical Providers Behavioral Health Providers Other Team Members Patients Source National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) Year Resource Type Web Page
### https://integrationacademy.ahrq.gov/products/substance-use-resources/environmental-scan/substance-use-tools?page=11


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://integrationacademy.ahrq.gov/products/substance-use-resources/environmental-scan/substance-use-tools?page=11)Substance Use Tools & Resources This collection of tools and resources is for providers, staff, and patients who offer or use services to address substance use, and other interested stakeholders. This collection was originally established following an environmental scan on implementing medication-assisted treatment (MAT) for opioid use disorder (OUD) in rural primary care. (See PDFs of Volume 1 [PDF 0.69 MB] and Volume 2 [PDF 1.28 MB] of that scan). Items have been continuously added to this collection since then, and the collection has expanded to cover substance use more broadly, rather than just MAT for OUD. Displaying 111 - 120 of 913 This fact sheet provides healthcare providers and people who use drugs with an overview of fentanyl and fentanyl test strips to prevent overdose. Other harm reduction strategies are also provided. Format Fact Sheet/Brochure Audience Medical Providers Behavioral Health Providers Other Team Members Patients Families Source California Department of Public Health Year Resource Type Global Health and Substance Use This NIDA web page includes information and resources on substance use at the global level. Format Web Page Audience States Policymakers and Payers Other Team Members Source National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) Year Resource Type Web Page Harm Reduction as a Trauma-Informed Approach to Substance Use - A Guide for Primary Care Providers This guide provides information and strategies to primary care providers on harm reduction as a trauma informed approach to treating individuals with substance use disorder. Format Guide Audience Medical Providers Behavioral Health Providers Source National Association of County and City Health Officials (NACCHO) Year Resource Type Health Equity Guiding Principles for Inclusive Communication These principles from the CDC are intended to help public health professionals, particularly health communicators, within and outside of CDC ensure their communication products and strategies adapt to the specific cultural, linguistic, environmental, and historical situation of each population or audience of focus. Format Toolkit Audience Medical Providers Behavioral Health Providers Other Team Members Source Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Year Resource Type Web Page Impairment Recognition and Response Training for Supervisors This training provides frontline supervisors, safety professionals and managers with the knowledge and skills to recognize and respond to perceived impairment in the workplace, no matter the cause. Format Web-Based Course Audience Other Team Members First Responders Source National Safety Council (NSC) Year Resource Type Web Page Integrated Behavioral Health Care for Older Adults This practice guide provides primary care practices with actionable, evidence-based guidance on the nuances of integrated care for the behavioral health needs of older adults, including needs related to substance use. Format Guide Audience Medical Providers Behavioral Health Providers Source American Medical Association (AMA) Year Resource Type Integrated Behavioral Health Lexicon (Revised) The aim of the Lexicon is to describe the functions which define integrated behavioral health in primary care practices to clarify what to implement and what to expect. Format Report/Paper/Issue Brief Audience Medical Providers Behavioral Health Providers Other Team Members Patients Families Communities Policymakers and Payers Source Agency of Healthcare Quality and Research (AHRQ) Integration Academy Year Resource Type Web Page Involuntary Commitment: Ethics at the Nexus of Mental Health Care and Homelessness This Issue Brief will discuss some interpersonal practices and communication strategies that clinicians can incorporate to lessen the trauma involved in involuntary commitment, and look at some considerations for structural and systemic change. Format Report/Paper/Issue Brief Audience Communities Policymakers and Payers Medical Providers Behavioral Health Providers Source National Health Care for the Homeless Council Year Resource Type LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health Equity Center of Excellence This training provides behavioral health professionals with vital information regarding treatment for individuals in the LGBTQ+ community. The training highlights health disparities and unmet needs in the LGBTQ community and best practices for practitioners. Format Web Page Audience Medical Providers Behavioral Health Providers Other Team Members Source Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) Year Resource Type Web Page LGBTQ+ Populations and Substance Use This NIDA web page includes on an overview of available research on substance use among the LGBTQ+ population. Format Web Page Audience Medical Providers Behavioral Health Providers Other Team Members Patients Source National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) Year Resource Type Web Page
### https://integrationacademy.ahrq.gov/products/substance-use-resources/environmental-scan/substance-use-tools?title=&field_resource_topic_ref_target_id%5B0%5D=996&field_terms_of_use_ref_target_id=All&page=5


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://integrationacademy.ahrq.gov/products/substance-use-resources/environmental-scan/substance-use-tools?title=&field_resource_topic_ref_target_id%5B0%5D=996&field_terms_of_use_ref_target_id=All&page=5)Substance Use Tools & Resources This collection of tools and resources is for providers, staff, and patients who offer or use services to address substance use, and other interested stakeholders. This collection was originally established following an environmental scan on implementing medication-assisted treatment (MAT) for opioid use disorder (OUD) in rural primary care. (See PDFs of Volume 1 [PDF 0.69 MB] and Volume 2 [PDF 1.28 MB] of that scan). Items have been continuously added to this collection since then, and the collection has expanded to cover substance use more broadly, rather than just MAT for OUD. Displaying 51 - 60 of 139 This Advisory reviews the evidence on prescription stimulant misuse among youth and young adults. It establishes prescription stimulant misuse as a public health problem, identifies associated risk and protective factors, and provides programs and action steps for stakeholders to prevent misuse. Format Advisory Audience Medical Providers Behavioral Health Providers Families Communities Schools Source Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) Year Resource Type PDF DAWN 2022 Non-Fatal Overdoses Short Report This report from the Drug Abuse Warning Network (DAWN) focuses on estimates and characteristics of non-fatal overdoses for emergency department visits from January, 2021āJune, 2022. Format Report/Paper/Issue Brief Audience Medical Providers Behavioral Health Providers Policymakers and Payers Communities Source Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) Year Resource Type PDF DAWN Findings from Drug-Related Emergency Department Visits, 2022 This report provides national estimates from the Drug Abuse Warning Network (DAWN) for 2022 data on drug-related emergency department visits, to inform programs to aid in preventing overdose and substance use-related health consequences. Format Report/Paper/Issue Brief Audience Medical Providers Behavioral Health Providers Policymakers and Payers Communities Source Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) Year Resource Type PDF Engaging Community Coalitions to Decrease Opioid Overdose Deaths Practice Guide 2023 This guide exists to help communities decrease opioid overdose deaths; it includes tools and real-world examples that can be used to build and strengthen community coalitions that work to reduce opioid overdose deaths. Format Guide Audience Communities Patients Source Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration Year Resource Type PDF Global Health and Substance Use This NIDA web page includes information and resources on substance use at the global level. Format Web Page Audience States Policymakers and Payers Other Team Members Source National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) Year Resource Type Web Page Harm Reduction as a Trauma-Informed Approach to Substance Use - A Guide for Primary Care Providers This guide provides information and strategies to primary care providers on harm reduction as a trauma informed approach to treating individuals with substance use disorder. Format Guide Audience Medical Providers Behavioral Health Providers Source National Association of County and City Health Officials (NACCHO) Year Resource Type PDF Involuntary Commitment: Ethics at the Nexus of Mental Health Care and Homelessness This Issue Brief will discuss some interpersonal practices and communication strategies that clinicians can incorporate to lessen the trauma involved in involuntary commitment, and look at some considerations for structural and systemic change. Format Report/Paper/Issue Brief Audience Communities Policymakers and Payers Medical Providers Behavioral Health Providers Source National Health Care for the Homeless Council Year Resource Type PDF LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health Equity Center of Excellence This training provides behavioral health professionals with vital information regarding treatment for individuals in the LGBTQ+ community. The training highlights health disparities and unmet needs in the LGBTQ community and best practices for practitioners. Format Web Page Audience Medical Providers Behavioral Health Providers Other Team Members Source Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) Year Resource Type Web Page LGBTQ+ Populations and Substance Use This NIDA web page includes on an overview of available research on substance use among the LGBTQ+ population. Format Web Page Audience Medical Providers Behavioral Health Providers Other Team Members Patients Source National Institute on Drug Abuse (NIDA) Year Resource Type Web Page Medication-Assisted Treatment (MAT) for Opioid Use Disorder in Jails and Prisons: A Planning and Implementation Toolkit (2023 Revised) This toolkit provides correctional administrators and health care providers recommendations and tools for implementing MAT in correctional settings and strategies for overcoming challenges. Format Toolkit Audience Medical Providers Behavioral Health Providers Other Team Members Source National Council for Mental Wellbeing Year Resource Type PDF
### https://integrationacademy.ahrq.gov/taxonomy/term/256?page=1


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://integrationacademy.ahrq.gov/taxonomy/term/256?page=1)The guideline describes the critical decision points in the management of Suicidal Risk Behavior (SRB) for suicidal self-directed violent behavior and provides clear and comprehensive evidence-based recommendations incorporating current information and practices for practitioners throughout the DoD and VA Health Care systems. This resource center offers practical guidance to help Medicaid stakeholders, including community-based organizations, engage community members in policy and program design development, especially as a means of increasing health equity. This training provides behavioral health professionals with vital information regarding treatment for individuals in the LGBTQ+ community. The training highlights health disparities and unmet needs in the LGBTQ community and best practices for practitioners.