



# [Addiction Technology Transfer Center (ATTC) Network](attcnetwork.org): ~9 pages censored since 1/20/25

## https://attcnetwork.org/products_and_resources/alcohol-is-still-a-drug-an-exploratory-webinar-series-february-1-2022/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://attcnetwork.org/products_and_resources/alcohol-is-still-a-drug-an-exploratory-webinar-series-february-1-2022/)The Great Lakes A/MH/PTTC is offering this training for individuals working in HHS Region 5: IL, IN, MI, MN, OH, WI. This training is being provided in response to a need identified by Region 5 stakeholders. Alcohol is STILL a drug. The opioid crisis, increase in stimulant misuse, and marijuana legalization dominate the newsâ yet alcohol remains the number one substance causing health, social, legal and financial problems throughout the US. While this series will focus on the hopefulness of recovery from alcohol use disorder, weâll also take a deep dive into what we know about the full impact of alcohol overuse and the ways it affects every person in the US. February 2022 Session: LGBTQ+ Youth and Alcohol Use Despite gains in LGBTQ+ civil rights laws, queer youth continue to experience disparities in health, safety, and SUD issues. This virtual presentation will present what you need to know as a provider about queer youth and alcohol. These are the overall learning objectives for the full 10-session series: DeâAn Roper, PhD, LCSW-S pronouns she, her, hers DeâAn Roper is a Licensed Clinical Social Worker and is an Assistant Professor of Practice in the School of Social Work at University of Texas at Arlington. Prior to her academic career, Dr. Roper worked in various systems of care for more than two decades. Her early experience was shaped by working in the LGBTQ+ community during the HIV/AIDS epidemic. Later her direct practice included working in criminal justice environments developing treatment programs for people diagnosed with co-occurring disorders. Dr. Roperâs areas of practice expertise include program development, LGBTQ+ cultural competence, service team development and, she provides advanced clinical supervision. Her research interests include, sexual and gender minority health disparities, health risk behaviors, substance abuse, mental health and criminal justice systems.
## https://attcnetwork.org/products_and_resources/incorporating-an-intersectionality-framework-to-understand-the-impact-of-racism-and-heterosexism-on-the-health-disparities-encountered-by-lgbtq-people-of-color/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://attcnetwork.org/products_and_resources/incorporating-an-intersectionality-framework-to-understand-the-impact-of-racism-and-heterosexism-on-the-health-disparities-encountered-by-lgbtq-people-of-color/)The New England ATTC Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Director, Dr. David Zelaya, presented the opening plenary session, ÔÇťIncorporating an Intersectionality Framework to Understand the Impact of Racism and Heterosexism on the Health Disparities Encountered by LGBTQ+ People of ColorÔÇŁ at the New England School of Best Practices. This interactive presentation offered an overview of tools to help behavioral health professionals understand how systems of oppression such as racism and heterosexism create unique health disparities (e.g., addiction and behavioral health care inequities) encountered by LGBTQ+ People of Color. ÔÇó Explain two strategies to reduce these health disparities in the behavioral health setting. Click the download button above to download the slides from this presentation.
## https://attcnetwork.org/news/june-is-lgbtqia-pride-month/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://attcnetwork.org/news/june-is-lgbtqia-pride-month/)The links below provide resources and publications for clinicians, researchers, and other health professionals related to the health of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer/Questioning, Intersex, and Asexual (LGBTQIA+) individuals. These resources include information about training to help providers develop skills to deliver culturally-responsive and evidence-based treatment, recovery and prevention services for LGBTQIA+ populations dealing with substance use and mental health disorders; and to recognize the impact that LGBTQIA+ individuals have had on history locally, nationally, and internationally. Resources: Webinar: LGBTQ+ Mental Health in Rural Communities Date: June 6, 2023, 2:00 pm ET This session will focus on the lived experienced of LGBTQ+ identifying folks in rural communities across the country. Discussion and dialogue will focus on mental health, the relationship to stress, and more. Learn more and register. SAMHSA Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender, Queer, and Intersex (LGBTQI+) Behavioral Health Equity Resources on the LGBTQI+ population include national survey reports, agency and federal initiatives, and related behavioral health resources. Center of Excellence on LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health Equity The Center of Excellence on LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health Equity provides behavioral health practitioners with vital information on supporting the population of people identifying as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, two-spirit, and other diverse orientations, gender identities, and expressions. Through training, coaching, and technical assistance, the Center of Excellence on LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health is implementing change strategies within mental health and substance use disorder treatment systems to address disparities effecting LGBTQ+ people across all stages of life. Positive environments are important to help all youth thrive. However, the health needs of LGBT Youth can differ from their heterosexual peers. On this page, find resources from the CDC, other government agencies, and community organizations for LGBT Youth, their friends, educators, parents, and family members to support positive environments. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) LGBTQI+ Communities and Resources HHS has taken many steps to strengthen the health resources available to LGBTQI+ Americans. This page provides resources and information about some of those steps and how they have impacted the LGBTQI+ communities. Library of Congress LGBTQ Pride Month Resources Find resources including research guides for LGBTQ+ and Artists, Business and the Workplace, and Sports and Recreation; Arts & Sciences; Civil Rights and Government; and Literature and Poetry. National organization providing crisis intervention and suicide prevention services to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer & questioning youth. SAMHSA has a multi-pronged approach to addressing the behavioral health needs of LGBTQI+ individuals with, affected by, or at risk for mental health and substance use conditions, which builds on the Presidentâs Executive Order on Advancing Equality for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Intersex Individuals (EO 14075). CLAS Webinar Series : Building Bridges of Inclusion: Empowering LGBTQ+ Awareness and Allyship (webinar on Thursday, June 29, hosted by Central East ATTC) The purpose of this webinar is to integrate CLAS Standards of care with ways to build bridges of equity and inclusion within a healthcare setting for meaningful service to the LGTBQ+ community. Learn more & register here. Reframing Language Guide (National Hispanic & Latino ATTC, February 2023): This free resource is designed to bring attention to the power of person-first language. The guide was created in collaboration by the National Family Support Technical Assistance Center, the National Federation of Families, the African American Behavioral Health Center of Excellence, the Center of Excellence for Behavioral Health Disparities on Aging, the Center of Excellence on LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health Equity, Severe Mental Illness Advisor, the National Alliance on Mental Health, and SAMHSA. El consumo de sustancias en la comunidad LGBTQ+ (Northeast & Caribbean ATTC, June 2022): This Spanish-language module makes visible the effects of stigmatization and marginalization in the LGBTQ+ community and how they are more likely to present depression, anxiety, and substance use disorders, compared to the heterosexual population. Health service providers will learn about LGBTQ+ population, be able to understand the social determinants that affect them and identify their needs. Also, they will learn language free of stigma and how to integrate sensitivity approaches and intervention strategies that respect their diversity. Facilitating Trauma-Informed Culture Change in Recovery-Oriented Systems: A Consultantâs Guide (Mid-America ATTC, February 2023): Our colleagues at the Mental Health Technology Transfer Center Network have created a landing page with resources supporting LGBTQ+ mental health. These resources are for professionals, the community, and allies: SAMHSA Releases New Data on Lesbian, Gay and Bisexual Behavioral Health The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) today released a new data report Lesbian, Gay, and Bisexual Behavioral Health: Results from the 2021 and 2022 National Surveys on Drug Use and Health, indicating that lesbian, gay, and bisexual adults are more likely than straight adults to use substances, experience mental health conditions including major depressive episodes, and experience serious thoughts of suicide. âWe know that statistically, lesbian, gay and bisexual Americans face increased risks for mental health and substance use issues, which is often related to stress caused by stigma, discrimination and harassment,â said HHS Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use Miriam E. Delphin-Rittmon, Ph.D., and the leader of SAMHSA. âSAMHSA is committed to addressing this issue by increasing services and supports for LGBTQI+ individuals.â SAMHSAâs approach to addressing the behavioral health needs of LGBTQI+ people with, affected by, or at risk for mental health and substance use conditions, builds on the Presidentâs Executive Order on Advancing Equality for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Intersex Individuals (EO 14075).
## https://attcnetwork.org/news/june-is-lgbtqia-pridemonth/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://attcnetwork.org/news/june-is-lgbtqia-pridemonth/)The links below provide resources and publications for clinicians, researchers, and other health professionals related to the health of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer/Questioning, Intersex, and Asexual (LGBTQIA+) individuals. These resources include information about training to help providers develop skills to deliver culturally-responsive and evidence-based treatment, recovery and prevention services for LGBTQIA+ populations dealing with substance use and mental health disorders; and to recognize the impact that LGBTQIA+ individuals have had on history locally, nationally, and internationally. Allyship in Action Webinar -June 6, 2024 (11:00 am MT) Mountain Plains ATTC is starting off Pride Month with a presentation to provide foundational knowledge to enhance participants' work with a diverse population. This webinar is designed to further develop understanding of LGBTQIA2S+ allyship and move toward solidarity. The session aims to help participants identify inclusive practices, skills, and resources to support LGBTQIA2S+ communities and demonstrating a commitment to the practice of allyship. Increasing your Effectiveness in Working with LGBTQ+ Populations Webinar -June 11, 2024 (12:00 pm MT) This is beginner friendly, data focused training covers LGBTQ+ identity, outcomes, and increasing patient engagement in services. The training will give participants a broad understanding of LGBTQ+ culture, demographic terms, the data on population experiences, and tools that can be used in patient care and within an organization as a whole. The training will make individuals more comfortable and confident when interacting with and treating LGBTQ+ communities. SAMHSA Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender, Queer, and Intersex (LGBTQI+) Behavioral Health Equity Resources on the LGBTQI+ population include national survey reports, agency and federal initiatives, and related behavioral health resources. Center of Excellence on LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health Equity The Center of Excellence on LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health Equity provides behavioral health practitioners with vital information on supporting the population of people identifying as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer, questioning, intersex, two-spirit, and other diverse orientations, gender identities, and expressions. Through training, coaching, and technical assistance, the Center of Excellence on LGBTQ+ Behavioral Health is implementing change strategies within mental health and substance use disorder treatment systems to address disparities effecting LGBTQ+ people across all stages of life. National organization providing crisis intervention and suicide prevention services to lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer & questioning youth. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) LGBTQI+ Communities and Resources HHS has taken many steps to strengthen the health resources available to LGBTQI+ Americans. This page provides resources and information about some of those steps and how they have impacted the LGBTQI+ communities Library of Congress LGBTQ Pride Month Resources Find resources including research guides for LGBTQ+ and Artists, Business and the Workplace, and Sports and Recreation; Arts & Sciences; Civil Rights and Government; and Literature and Poetry SAMHSA has a multi-pronged approach to addressing the behavioral health needs of LGBTQI+ individuals with, affected by, or at risk for mental health and substance use conditions, which builds on the PresidentâsÂ Executive Order on Advancing Equality for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Intersex Individuals (EO 14075).
## https://attcnetwork.org/products-and-resources-catalog/?_center=mid-america-attc


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://attcnetwork.org/products-and-resources-catalog/?_center=mid-america-attc)Print Media This resource helps individuals and organizations navigate the legal landscape in Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, and Nebraska, ensuring that lifesaving harm reduction services, like naloxone distribution and overdose Good Samaritan laws, are accessible to those who need them most. This document was originally created in 2021 and updated in August of 2024. Published: August 29, 2024 Print Media The Mid-America Addiction Technology Transfer Center (Mid-America ATTC) Impact Report highlights our contributions to the behavioral and substance use workforce from 2017 to 2024. The report offers an overview of our activities and achievements during this funding cycle. Published: August 15, 2024 Presentation Slides Substance Use Disorder affects the LGBTQ community at a higher rate than the general population. Unique challenges like stigma, shame, and lack of support can impede access to treatment. As a service provider, it's important to create a welcoming and accepting environment, reduce stigma, and tailor treatments to the needs of LGBTQ individuals. Abstinence based recovery may be the key for some, where harm-reduction strategies may be more appropriate for others. By providing culturally competent treatment, we increase our clients’ chances of achieving lasting recovery. Objectives: Educate Substance Use Disorder (SUD) providers on the unique challenges faced by LGBTQ+ individuals with SUD Describe effective methods for treating and connecting with LGBTQ+ clients Learn to provide effective and culturally competent treatment to the LGBTQ+ population Published: June 13, 2024 Other Our guests Patricia Gruits, Architect and Co-Executive Director at MASS Design Group, and Alejandra Cervantes, Director and Design Researcher, lead us in a thoughtful discussion that covers ways design can either hurt or heal, what it really means to engage the community that the space will ultimately serve, the tension between ensuring safety and being surveilled, and how leaders can navigate their own anxiety when, instead of pushing for action and taking charge, they need to “move at the speed of trust” by making space and time for exploring new perspectives and solutions, unleashing everyone’s creativity, really listening, and consistently nurturing relationships. Published: May 31, 2024 Other Join us for a heart-warming discussion about the innovative ways a nonprofit in Independence, Missouri, is supporting community belonging and well-being by offering warm hospitality, gorgeous food, delicious drinks, and welcoming space, all intentionally-sourced, mindfully prepared, and beautifully-presented. Our guests this time are Estela Gutierrez, Manager of BlendWell Community Cafe, and Jennifer Manuleleua, Senior Vice President of Community Development for Community Services League. They remind us that relationships really matter, intentionality is key, details make the difference, any product or service can be a tool for nurturing community resilience, and beauty and joy are important experiences for everyone. Published: May 17, 2024 Other Animal lovers, activists, and all humans, don’t miss this episode! Our guests are Mark Churchill, Director, and Emily Harris, Case Manager, from Pawsperity: Pet Care That Unleashes Human Potential. In this engaging conversation, we discuss how TIC culture seeks to avoid re-traumatizing people and what to do when re traumatization happens, key practices for helping staff and leaders manage secondary trauma, the importance of implementing TIC at all levels of the organization (not just at the front line), the wide variety of trauma responses as well as the wide variety of ways to define success, and why giving up power in a situation can sometimes be the most powerful thing we can do. Published: May 3, 2024 Other This time, our guests are Neal Long, Director of Learning at the Lyric Opera of Kansas City, and Anne Manning, Deputy Director for Learning and Engagement at the Nelson Atkins Museum of Art. In this captivating conversation, we explore the role of art in healing and resilience, ways to be more innovative in providing support for groups of people, the importance of practicing humility when you know that you don’t know, striking a balance between beauty, comfort, and truth-telling, and curating experiences that foster choice, develop empathy, and provide care. You don’t have to be an artist to get something good out of this episode! Published: April 12, 2024 Print Media The Invitation to Change (ITC) is a holistic helping model for families affected by substance use, drawing from concepts also found in CRAFT, MI, and ACT. Participants will leave the training with a complete set of tools for empowering families to support their loved ones effectively. More about the approach here. The deadline to apply is April 19, 2024. This training is a collaboration with the Great Lakes ATTC, South Southwest ATTC, Mountain Plains ATTC, Northwest ATTC, South Southeast ATTC, Mid America ATTC, and the ATTC Network Coordinating Office. Published: April 2, 2024 Other Join us for a fascinating conversation with our guests, Leslie Carto, External Media Communications Manager at University Health, and Eryn Realmuto, Internal Communications Manager at University Health, about the challenges of being trauma-sensitive in an industry designed to thrive by activating fear, opportunities to provide care for those who communicate stressful information as part of their jobs, and key tips for trauma-informed communication in any organization. Bonus: In this episode, one of our guests unexpectedly “turns the mic around” and asks the hosts to share how they each became involved in the field of Trauma Informed Care. Published: March 29, 2024 Other Join us for Trauma Informed Care in Unexpected Places (TICUP) our next topic on the Trauma Informed Caring Podcast, brought to you by the Mid-America Addiction Technology Transfer Center and funded by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration. In this introductory episode, Andrea and Roxanne discuss themes from the upcoming season as well as how they each came to work in the field of Trauma Informed Care and what has surprised them along the way. Warning: Listening to this series may cause you to feel good and experience more vicarious joy in your life. Published: March 8, 2024 Other In this episode, we talk with Lisa Charlson, Human Resources Organizational Development Educator, and Jackie Griffin, Senior Director of Guest Services, both with University Health, a Level-One Trauma Center located in the heart of Kansas City, Missouri and serving as both the urban-core, safety-net hospital and the teaching hospital for the University of Missouri-Kansas City. This conversation is filled with extremely practical advice for leaders, from leaders, including ways Trauma Informed Caring transforms conflict, how to have truly collaborative conversations even around difficult topics, and how to create compassionate culture that supports and includes absolutely every person your organization touches. Published: March 8, 2024 Other Episode 2, with Chief Judge of the 31st Judicial District in Kansas, Honorable Daniel D. Creitz, and Director of Community Corrections & Kansas Department of Corrections Juvenile Services, Troy Smith If you’ve ever wondered what works better than punishment to reduce criminal activity, you will want to listen to this episode! Our guests, Chief Judge of the 31st Judicial District in Kansas, the Honorable Daniel D. Creitz, and Director of Community Corrections and Kansas Department of Corrections Juvenile Services, Troy Smith, share their work supporting persons with substance use disorders as they experience recovery, rekindle hope, and take their lives back. You’ll be inspired as they discuss what works, what doesn’t, what it takes to stay well yourself when working in a field with this much trauma exposure, and why it’s so important to continually celebrate successes, both large and small. Published: March 8, 2024 Other This Black History Month, let's pause to recognize the remarkable achievements, unwavering strength, and outstanding triumphs of the Black community. It's also a time for us to recommit to cultivating an environment of inclusiveness, fairness, and opportunities for all. By recognizing and elevating diverse voices, we enrich our workplace and the vitality of our organizations, communities, and society. Take advantage of MATTC’s FREE Culturally & Linguistically Appropriate Services (CLAS) training to improve your organization’s quality of services provided to all individuals, which will ultimately help reduce health disparities and achieve health equity. More information is found in the flyer attached! Please email [email protected] for additional information. Published: February 22, 2024 Toolkit We recognize that the holidays are a difficult time for many. Mid-America ATTC developed a holiday toolkit: How to Thrive During the Holiday Season. It includes tips for people in recovery and for those who support people in recovery, harm reduction techniques for those who want to cut back during the holidays, self-care ideas, LGBTQ+ and recovery resources, and more! Author: Darla Belflower Editors: Bree Sherry, Catie Holmes, and Jenny Ho Published: December 12, 2023 Print Media Mid-America ATTC partnered with Facente Consulting to launch a harm reduction consultation pilot program in early 2022. The goal of this program was to act as a harm reduction resource to empower individuals and organizations seeking to implement or improve evidence-based practices within their systems to reduce stigma and promote the safety and well-being of people who use drugs. The poster outlines the findings of the pilot program. Published: November 21, 2023 Multimedia Please find the slides and the video for the Substance Use Disorder and the LGBTQ+ Community: Assessing the Impact of Compounded Stigma and Treatment Considerations on October 30 and November 6 from 1 pm - 2:30 (CST). Substance use is a complex issue that affects individuals from all walks of life, including the LGBTQ+ community. Members of this community face unique challenges when seeking help for addiction. Stigma, shame, and a lack of family support can all make it difficult for LGBTQ individuals to access the resources they need to overcome substance use disorders. Additionally, growing anti-LBGTQ legislation can further exacerbate these issues, creating a hostile environment for individuals struggling with addiction. Session 1: Click here to watch the video Session 2: Click here to watch the video Click the button above to download the slides Objectives: Educate Substance Use Disorder (SUD) providers on the unique challenges faced by LGBTQ+ individuals with SUD Increase awareness of the compounded stigma and discrimination the LGBTQ+ community may experience Learn to provide effective and culturally competent treatment to the LGBTQ+ population Presenter Information: Darla Belflower has worked in substance use disorder and behavioral health for over three decades. She started a training and consultation business in 2022. She is a member of The Missouri Behavioral Health Council’s Culture, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (CEDI) Committee. She is also Vice Chair of the Kansas City Recovery Coalition and is active in the Kansas City Recovery Community. Being in long-term recovery from a substance use disorder inspired her to write her memoir, I Am Not Anonymous. She has also authored two booklets and is writing a workbook on Substance Use Disorder and Trauma that will be released in the spring of 2025. Ms. Belflower is a Clinically Licensed Social Worker in both Missouri and Kansas, a Licensed Addiction Counselor in Kansas, a Certified Reciprocal Advanced Alcohol and Drug Counselor in Missouri, a Certified Peer Specialist, a Certified Tobacco Treatment Specialist, a Certified Harm Reduction Specialist, and a trainer and educator of Narcan distribution. Darla and her wife live in Kansas City, Missouri, and enjoy spending time with their daughter. She is passionate about teaching and training so that others may learn how to help those most vulnerable individuals she has enjoyed working with. CEUs are pending. Please email Bree at [email protected] for any questions. Published: November 2, 2023 Multimedia Each person who enters recovery is as unique as their story. And this month, in honor of recovery month, we are bringing you recovery stories from people in diverse populations. Hear what people in these communities want providers to know. Episode 5: Lisa got sober at fifteen, and now, at 34 people often discount her experience. Lisa has many labels: a person in recovery, a queer lesbian, multi-religious, and a single mom who created her family through international adoption. She continues to work on her recovery daily and is grateful to be sober. Published: October 5, 2023 Multimedia Each person who enters recovery is as unique as their story. And this month, in honor of recovery month, we are bringing you recovery stories from people in diverse populations. Hear what people in these communities want providers to know. Bonus Episode: Norma is an 88-year-old woman who entered recovery in her 50’s. As an older lady friends and family have a hard time believing she ever had a drinking problem. She educates her doctors and friends about what alcoholism is. Published: October 5, 2023 Multimedia Each person who enters recovery is as unique as their story. And this month, in honor of recovery month, we are bringing you recovery stories from people in diverse populations. Hear what people in these communities want providers to know. Episode 4: Jazie is a non-binary person who is coming up on their 2nd sober anniversary. Jazie recognizes the older version of themselves taught them many things and acknowledges that they would not be the best version of themselves without that former self. Published: September 21, 2023 Multimedia Each person who enters recovery is as unique as their story. And this month, in honor of recovery month, we are bringing you recovery stories from people in diverse populations. Hear what people in these communities want providers to know. Episode 3: Casey explains that recovery does not have to be abstinence only. She discusses her thoughts on why she practices abstinence only now, but she may not always. She discusses why she may use substances in spiritual practices or rituals that her culture has used for centuries, and that does not contradict being in recovery. Casey uses her voice to stand up for who she stands on. Published: September 21, 2023 Multimedia Each person who enters recovery is as unique as their story. And this month, in honor of recovery month, we are bringing you recovery stories from people in diverse populations. Hear what people in these communities want providers to know. Episode 1: Laura celebrates her recovery and the person she has become as a result. When her daughter was battling her own addiction, this veteran, divorced, gay mom had to advocate to get her daughter's other mom to be recognized in the healthcare setting. Laura and her ex-partner were the first parents in MO to have a same-sex partner adoption, but even that legal distinction did not stop the discrimination this queer family faced when seeking medical care for their daughter. Published: September 7, 2023 Multimedia Each person who enters recovery is as unique as their story. And this month, in honor of recovery month, we are bringing you recovery stories from people in diverse populations. Hear what people in these communities want providers to know. Episode 2: Hector looked at his family and chose not to repeat those patterns. Hector practiced abstinence into his young adulthood. When he did start using, he practiced harm reduction. As a queer, first-generation Hispanic immigrant, he has been able to put a voice to what so many in his culture could not do. Published: September 7, 2023 Multimedia This recording is part 1 of the CLAS Matters Series. The series aims to initiate conversations and yield compassionate outcomes within organizations and community providers to ensure services offered are inclusive, equitable, respectful, and available for marginalized populations. This is one hour introductory session that provides a general overview about CLAS and the 15 standards. Watch the recording here! Published: July 27, 2023 Multimedia This recording is part 2 of the CLAS Matters Series. The series aims to initiate conversations and yield compassionate outcomes within organizations and community providers to ensure services offered are inclusive, equitable, respectful, and available for marginalized populations. This is a 90 minute session that introduces a framework to support cultural responsiveness. This session provides a greater understanding about the three major themes of the CLAS standards Watch the recording here! Published: July 27, 2023
## https://attcnetwork.org/products_and_resources/recovery-month-podast-series-recovery-in-the-lgbtq-population/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://attcnetwork.org/products_and_resources/recovery-month-podast-series-recovery-in-the-lgbtq-population/)Recovery Month Podast Series: Recovery in the LGBTQ Population Dr. Tom Freese, co-director of the Pacific Southwest ATTC, shares insights on treatment and recovery in the LGBTQ population and offers recommendations on ways treatment organizations can meet the needs of their LGBTQ clients.
## https://attcnetwork.org/products_and_resources/substance-use-disorder-and-the-lgbtq-community-slides-videos/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://attcnetwork.org/products_and_resources/substance-use-disorder-and-the-lgbtq-community-slides-videos/)Please find the slides and the video for the┬áSubstance Use Disorder and the LGBTQ+ Community: Assessing the Impact of Compounded Stigma and Treatment Considerations┬áon October 30 and November 6 from 1 pm - 2:30 (CST). Substance use is a complex issue that affects individuals from all walks of life, including the LGBTQ+ community. Members of this community face unique challenges when seeking help for addiction. Stigma, shame, and a lack of family support can all make it difficult for LGBTQ individuals to access the resources they need to overcome substance use disorders. Additionally, growing anti-LBGTQ legislation can further exacerbate these issues, creating a hostile environment for individuals struggling with addiction. Darla Belflower┬áhas worked in substance use disorder and behavioral health for over three decades. She started a training and consultation business in 2022. She is a member of The Missouri Behavioral Health CouncilÔÇÖs Culture, Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (CEDI) Committee. She is also Vice Chair of the Kansas City Recovery Coalition and is active in the Kansas City Recovery Community. Being in long-term recovery from a substance use disorder inspired her to write her memoir,┬áI Am Not Anonymous. She has also authored two booklets and is writing a workbook on Substance Use Disorder and Trauma that will be released in the spring of 2025. Ms. Belflower is a Clinically Licensed Social Worker in both Missouri and Kansas, a Licensed Addiction Counselor in Kansas, a Certified Reciprocal Advanced Alcohol and Drug Counselor in Missouri, a Certified Peer Specialist, a Certified Tobacco Treatment Specialist, a Certified Harm Reduction Specialist, and a trainer and educator of Narcan distribution. Darla and her wife live in Kansas City, Missouri, and enjoy spending time with their daughter. She is passionate about teaching and training so that others may learn how to help those most vulnerable individuals she has enjoyed working with. CEUs are pending. Please email Bree at [email protected] for any questions.
## https://attcnetwork.org/supporting-the-lgbtq-community/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://attcnetwork.org/supporting-the-lgbtq-community/)Substance Use Disorder affects the LGBTQ+ community at a higher rate than the general population. Unique challenges such as stigma, shame, and lack of support can impede access to treatment. Mid-America ATTC consultant Darla Belflower has developed resources to highlight best practices for working with this population. "It's important to create a welcoming and accepting environment, reduce stigma, and tailor treatments to the needs of LGBTQ+ individuals. Abstinence-based recovery may be key for some, whereas harm-reduction strategies may be more appropriate for others."Darla Belflower Darla Belflower LCSW, CPS has worked in leadership in the substance use disorder and behavioral health fields for over three decades. She is currently the Clinical Director at Healing House. She has a passion for teaching others what she has learned in those years. She is Vice Chair of the KC Recovery Coalition, serves on the board of the MO Coalition of Recovery Support Providers and is a member of The MO Department of Mental Health State Advisory Council. Darla obtained her MSW from the KU, and she has a BS in Psychology and Alcohol and Drug Studies from MO Valley College. Darla is a person in recovery and author of the book, ÔÇťI Am Not Anonymous.ÔÇŁ
## https://attcnetwork.org/products_and_resources/treatment-considerations-for-lgbtq-people-who-use-substances/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://attcnetwork.org/products_and_resources/treatment-considerations-for-lgbtq-people-who-use-substances/)Substance Use Disorder affects the LGBTQ community at a higher rate than the general population. Unique challenges like stigma, shame, and lack of support can impede access to treatment. As a service provider, it's important to create a welcoming and accepting environment, reduce stigma, and tailor treatments to the needs of LGBTQ individuals. Abstinence based recovery may be the key for some, where harm-reduction strategies may be more appropriate for others. By providing culturally competent treatment, we increase our clientsÔÇÖ chances of achieving lasting recovery.