



# [Fermilab](fnal.gov): ~9 pages censored since 1/20/25

## [diversity.fnal.gov](diversity.fnal.gov): ~9 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://diversity.fnal.gov/spectrum/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://diversity.fnal.gov/spectrum/)Mission: Spectrum is a lab resource group dedicated to building awareness and providing resources for the LGBTQ+ community to foster an environment of understanding, acceptance, and equality for all within the laboratory community. Vision: The group will focus on promoting equity at all levels, advancing LGBTQ+ friendly policies and benefits, promoting an inclusive and welcoming workplace environment, and participating in outreach activities. We welcome everyone who is interested in seeing our lab community grow stronger, safer, and more open. Spectrum is an inclusive community made up of people of all orientations with allies especially welcome; out or not, Spectrum needs you! Fermilab’s Spectrum is modeled after and will closely cooperate with Argonne National Laboratory’s Spectrum organization, formed in 2015. The two groups will hold joint events and trainings, but will remain separate entities. Participation in this lab-wide resource group is open to all employees, visitors, and guests of Fermilab. Getting Involved - An Inclusive Resources Guide is now available for the Fermilab community. The site includes benefits, procedures, points of contact, and more! - To join our Listserv, please send an email to listserv@fnal.gov with SUBSCRIBE SPECTRUM in the email body. - Add your pronouns to your Fermilab e-mail signature with this step-by-step guide. - Add your gender identity and chosen name to your workforce profile with this step-by-step guide. Celebrate 2024 Pride! Fermilab marched in the Aurora and Chicago Pride Parades in 2022 and 2023! Join our listserv for more information on 2024 events. June 6, 2024: SafeZone Training: This interactive presentation on LGBTQ+ Safe Zones was created especially for the Fermilab community by the Spectrum LRG. Its focus is on fostering a welcoming environment for our colleagues in the LGBTQ+ communities, with takeaways that can be applied generally. Presenters of this workshop are Fermilab employees who discuss the laboratory’s expectations regarding inclusivity; what inclusion looks like; what a safe zone is; the science of gender; as well as how we can put LGBTQ+ inclusion into practice every day. Please contact Anahi Ruiz Beltran with questions. Continue celebrating Pride with us! Fermilab’s Creative Services department developed virtual backgrounds and social media graphics. They are available for download in the gallery. Resources and News News: - Fermilab’s Spectrum LRG represented the lab at oSTEM, January 11, 2024 - Fermilab Today emails now use preferred names in greetings, August 9, 2022 - Fermilab takes science to Pride, July 27, 2022 - Changing a name without forfeiting credit, Symmetry, July 28, 2021 - Scientific publishing organizations and national laboratories partner on transgender-inclusive name-change process for published papers, July 28, 2021 Tools: As a part of Inclusion Matters, Spectrum provides Safe Zone Training multiple times each year. This presentation available to the Fermilab community for ongoing reference here: Fermilab LGBTQ+ Safe Zone Presentation July 2023 Report: LGBT Climate in Physics [PDF] | APS, March 2016 Guide: LGBTQ + Inclusivity in Physics and Astronomy [PDF] | SGMA/AAS, April 2018 General Resources - Pronouns.org | Resources on personal pronouns - American Physical Society: LGBT+ Physicists | Resources on the LGBTQ+ issues and climate in physics - Lesbians Who Tech is a Community of Queer Women in or around tech (and the people who love them) - NOGLSTP | National Organization of Gay and Lesbian Scientists and Technical Professionals - Out Alliance | LGBTQ Education & SafeZone - oSTEM | Out in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics - Pride in STEM | A charitable trust for LGBT+ in Science, Engineering, Tech, and Maths - Point Foundation | The National LGBTQ Scholarship Fund LGBTQ Youth Resources - PFLAG (Northern Il. Council) | Supports LGBTQ people, their families and friends through local PFLAG chapter help lines, support group meetings and locally and nationally produced resources - Youth Outlook | Local group focused on providing support, safe space and drop-in centers for LGBTQ teens in Naperville, Elgin, DeKalb, Ottawa, Sterling, and Palatine - Resources for LGBTQ+ Youth by State Fermipoint: Spectrum Documents and Materials (login required) Contact Erica Snider or Pete Cholewinski for more information; Executive Sponsor: Steve Brice, PhD, Division Head, ND
### https://diversity.fnal.gov/inclusion-matters/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://diversity.fnal.gov/inclusion-matters/)Inclusion Matters is an annual series of lectures, trainings, and informational symposiums to give employees the tools they need to ensure we at Fermilab can foster a positive community and help to advance the efforts of equity, diversity, and inclusion. Past Inclusion Matters events are highlighted on the archives page, and many workshops and programs are recorded. Please contact Anahi Ruiz Beltran with inquiries. 2024 Program Descriptions & Event Registration Info Accessibility accommodations are available for all Inclusion Matters events. Please contact Anahi Ruiz Beltran with questions. Inclusion Matters 2024: Workplace Culture: Psychological Safety. Physical Safety. Psychological safety is fundamental to physical safety. In our workplace, psychological safety ensures contributors at all levels feel included, and are safe to learn, to contribute ideas and to voice concerns without fear of ridicule or retaliation. This series explores identity and inclusion through a variety of lenses to highlight the importance of psychological safety. Remembering Dr. King: 1929 –1968 January 11; 11 a.m. – 12 p.m.; Virtual Speaker: Charles E. Betha While Martin Luther King Jr.’s activism focused on dismantling systems that oppressed African Americans in the South, he also spent time in Chicago and often spoke out on the realities of northern discrimination, particularly on the issues of poverty, education, and housing. In “Remember Dr. King,” Bethea discusses key moments in Dr. King’s work with a focus on his time in Chicago. National Mentoring Month: Supporting Our Future Workforce: Supervising and Mentoring Interns Information Sessions: January 10, 17; Mentoring Panel: January 24 Informative Sessions: Mallory Bowman Panelists: Marco Mambelli, Frank S Chlebana, Genfa Wu Looking forward to summer 2024, this informative session prepares the Fermilab community to welcome interns to the laboratory. The session will review guidelines and expectations for supervising interns and provide valuable tips on supervision and mentoring. In addition, a panel of experienced supervisors will share their experiences, offer advice, and answer participant questions. Black History Month: Oral History Workshop February 13; 11 a.m. – 12 p.m.; Hybrid – Zoom/Hornets Nest (WH8X) Speaker: Valerie Higgins Fermilab archivist Valerie Higgins will highlight the powerful impact of preserving history through storytelling. The workshop will share impactful techniques for conducting interviews to preserve your own family history. National Engineers Week: Meet-and-Greet: fSWE, SHPE, and NSBE February 22; 1 – 2 p.m.; IERC The Office of Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Accessibility will showcase three professional chapters, the Society of Women Engineers, the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers, and the National Society of Black Engineers, available for the Fermilab community as part of National Engineers Week Black History Month: The Bloomington-Normal Black History Project (BNBHP) February 28; 1 – 2 p.m.; Virtual Speaker: Jeff Woodard The Bloomington-Normal Black History Project (BNBHP) founded in 1982 and its collections span the 19th and 20th centuries. The McLean County Museum of History will introduce Dr. Mildred Platt’s contributions to the project and virtually share its collection of photographs, portraits, booklets, articles, and photocopies related to club organizations and churches of the local Black community. International Women’s Day: Cracking the Confidence Code March 6; 1 – 2:15 p.m.; Virtual Speaker: Alexis Kanda-Olmstead A hidden force that undermines women’s career and leadership ambitions is self-doubt. In this session, we will unpack why it is so hard for women to feel confident, bust common myths about confidence, and identify research-based strategies to build confidence that do not include “acting more like a man.” Women will leave with a two-week goal to build their confidence and a long-term action plan to achieve a personal or professional aspiration. All are encouraged to attend. Deaf History Month: Deaf Culture – Postponed Speaker: Thomas Holcomb, PhD Deaf History Month recognizes the contributions of the deaf and hard of hearing community. It’s celebrated from March 13 to April 15; The first school for the deaf in the United States was founded on April 15, 1817, and on April 8, 1864, Gallaudet University was founded. Then, on March 13, 1988, Gallaudet University hired the first deaf president, Irving King Jordan. From Service to Science: Veterans Pathways to Fermilab March 27; 1 – 2 p.m.; Hybrid – Zoom/Oscillatorium (WH13NW) Speaker: Leslie Garcia The Courageous Conversations series is designed to increase awareness of and engagement with our military-affiliated colleagues. This engaging presentation explores the exciting possibilities that arise when combining military experience and national laboratory exposure. The combination can lead to fulfilling and impactful contributions. Deaf History Month: Advancing scientific discourse in American Sign Language April 11; 11 a.m. – 12 p.m.; Virtual Speaker: Colin Paul Lualdi For deaf and hearing alike working in STEM fields, language modeling is often how fluency is developed in technical discourse. Our teachers, mentors and co-workers introduce us to the language used to engage with our work, whether in educational, research, or other settings. As a part of a broader effort to make STEM fields more accessible, deaf scientists have been working to increase the availability of resources modelling effective science communication in American Sign Language. Green Zone Training April 17; 11 a.m. – 12 p.m.; Hornets Nest (WH8X) Speaker: Terrell Odom, PhD Veterans recognize a Green Zone as a safe place. This workshop will raise awareness of the issues and concerns military service members face when re-entering civilian life and work. Upon completion, participants’ increased sensitivity will help Fermilab’s military veterans identify and access appropriate resources and promote their sense of belonging. Employees who complete this workshop become Green Zone advocates and can proudly display the Green Zone Fermilab seal in their workspace. Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month: Processing Cultural Trauma: Intergenerational effects of the Japanese American Incarceration May 8; 1 – 2:15 p.m.; Virtual Speaker: Donna Nagata, PhD Following the World War II Japanese military attack on Pearl Harbor, the U.S. government moved all persons of Japanese ancestry away from the West Coast and sent them to desolate incarceration camps, where they lived for up to 4 years. Two thirds were American citizens. The mass removal was portrayed as necessary to protect against potential acts of disloyalty that might be committed by individuals with Japanese heritage, even though evidence at the time did not support this rationale. Although the camps closed after the war ended, consequences from the unjust imprisonment have continued to affect Japanese Americans over time. This presentation describes these long-term impacts for U.S.-born incarcerees, as well as the transgenerational impacts on their postwar children and grandchildren. Mental Health Awareness Month: National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) Family & Friends May 14; 10 a.m. – 12 p.m.; Hybrid – Zoom/Hornets Nest (WH8X) Speaker: National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) DuPage This seminar provides insight on how best to support loved ones with a mental health condition (depression, anxiety disorders, eating disorders, etc.). Trained presenters with lived experiences of supporting a family member with a mental health condition will walk participants through: • Understanding diagnoses, treatment, and recovery • Effective communication strategies • The importance of self-care • Crisis preparation strategies • NAMI and community resources Pride Month: LGBTQ+ Safe Zone Training June 6; 10:30 a.m. –12 p.m.; Curia II (WH2) Speaker: Anne E. Heavey & Jason Michael St. John This interactive presentation on LGBTQ+ Safe Zones was created especially for the Fermilab community by the Spectrum LRG. Its focus is on fostering a welcoming environment for our colleagues in the LGBTQ+ communities, with takeaways that can be applied generally. Presenters of this workshop are Fermilab employees who discuss the laboratory’s expectations regarding inclusivity, what inclusion looks like, what a safe zone is, the science of gender, as well as how we can put LGBTQ+ inclusion into practice every day. Juneteenth: African American Quilting June 12; 11 a.m. – 12 p.m.; Virtual Speaker: Sharbreon Plummer, PhD Join Dr. Sharbreon Plummer as she discusses the significance of quilt making to Black art history and cultural preservation. She will offer a look into the practice, its evolution as a communal art form and how contemporary quilters continue to engage soft politics through their creative practice. Laboratory Resource Group (LRG) Fair June 27; 1 – 2 p.m.; Atrium (WH1) The Fair invites all members of the Fermilab community to meet LRG representatives to learn about the groups’ missions and visions, their yearly activities, and opportunities to get involved. Green Zone Training July 1; 11 a.m. – 12 p.m.; Virtual Speaker: Terrell Odom, PhD Veterans recognize a Green Zone as a safe place. This workshop will raise awareness of the issues and concerns military service members face when re-entering civilian life and work. Upon completion, participants’ increased sensitivity will help Fermilab’s military veterans identify and access appropriate resources and promote their sense of belonging. Employees who complete this workshop become Green Zone advocates and can proudly display the Green Zone Fermilab seal in their workspace. Disability Pride Month: Neurodiversity 101 July 11; 11 a.m. – 12 p.m.; Virtual Speaker: Meredith Nicholson Disability Pride Month is celebrated in July as it marks the anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) in 1990. It’s a time to create visibility and to celebrate people with disabilities. The workshop provides participants with an overview of the neurodiversity movement, key terms and ways to support neurodivergent individuals in the workplace. Among topics covered will be the over lap of experiences between the LGBTQ+ Community and neurodivergent individuals. Additionally, the speaker will go over mock scenarios and be able to answer any questions. The workshop is co-sponsored by the Spectrum and FACts LRGs. LGBTQ+ Safe Zone Training July 17; 10:30 a.m. – 12 p.m.; One West (WH1W) Speaker: Pete Cholewinski & Erica Snider This interactive presentation on LGBTQ+ Safe Zones was created especially for the Fermilab community by the Spectrum LRG. Its focus is on fostering a welcoming environment for our colleagues in the LGBTQ+ communities, with takeaways that can be applied generally. Presenters of this workshop are Fermilab employees who discuss the laboratory’s expectations regarding inclusivity, what inclusion looks like, what a safe zone is, the science of gender, as well as how we can put LGBTQ+ inclusion into practice every day. Intern Day: Where Are You Going? Goal Setting for Personal and Professional Success July 24; 1 p.m. – 2 p.m.; Virtual Goal setting gives you long-term vision and short-term motivation. The process of setting goals allows you to choose where you want to go in your personal life as well as your professional career. A life without goals is like a road trip without a map. By knowing exactly what you want to achieve, you are less likely to get lost, and you will be happier and less frustrated along the way. Emotional Intelligence August 14; 1 p.m. – 2 p.m.; Virtual Avoiding Burnout: Self-Assessment Methods and Strategies for Self-Care September 11; 1 p.m. – 2 p.m.; Virtual Hispanic Heritage Month: The National Museum of Puerto Rican Arts and Culture September 30; 1 – 2 p.m.; Virtual Speaker: Billy Ocasio The National Museum of Puerto Rican Arts and Culture is in Humboldt Park. A virtual tour will highlight the museum’s mission, history, current exhibitions and opportunities for the public to engage. National Coming Out Day: LGBTQ+ Safe Zone Training October 2 10:30 a.m. – 12 p.m. One West (WH1W) Speaker: Pete Cholewinski & Erica Snider This interactive presentation on LGBTQ+ Safe Zones was created especially for the Fermilab community by the Spectrum LRG. Its focus is on fostering a welcoming environment for our colleagues in the LGBTQ+ communities, with takeaways that can be applied generally. Presenters of this workshop are Fermilab employees who discuss the laboratory’s expectations regarding inclusivity, what inclusion looks like, what a safe zone is, the science of gender, as well as how we can put LGBTQ+ inclusion into practice every day. Veterans Day: Green Zone Training November 6; 11 a.m. – 12 p.m.; Virtual Speaker: UChicago – Office for Military-Affiliated Communities (OMAC) Veterans recognize a Green Zone as a safe place. This workshop will raise awareness of the issues and concerns military service members face when re-entering civilian life and work. Upon completion, participants’ increased sensitivity will help Fermilab’s military veterans identify and access appropriate resources and promote their sense of belonging. Employees who complete this workshop become Green Zone advocates and can proudly display the Green Zone Fermilab seal in their workspace. Veterans Day: From Service to Science: Veterans Pathways to Fermilab November 20; 1 – 2 p.m.; Hybrid – Zoom/Oscillatorium (WH13NW) Speaker: Chandler E. Lawrence The Courageous Conversations series is designed to increase awareness of and engagement with our military-affiliated colleagues. This engaging presentation explores the exciting possibilities that arise when combining military experience and national laboratory exposure. The combination can lead to fulfilling and impactful contributions. EDIA Recognition Awards December 4; 11 – 12 p.m.; Wilson Hall 15th fl Crossover South The Office of Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Accessibility will recognize members of the Fermilab community for their contributions in advancing equity, diversity, inclusion and accessibility at the lab. Questions? Contact Anahi Ruiz Beltran, Diversity & Inclusion Specialist for Climate, Culture and Belonging
### https://diversity.fnal.gov/spectrum-2023-pride/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://diversity.fnal.gov/spectrum-2023-pride/)Fermilab celebrated LGBTQ+ Pride Month by participating in the Aurora and Chicago Parades, raising the Progress Flag permanently, and hosting the SafeZone workshop. Fermilab celebrated LGBTQ+ Pride Month by participating in the Aurora and Chicago Parades, raising the Progress Flag permanently, and hosting the SafeZone workshop.
### https://diversity.fnal.gov/inclusion-matters-archive/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://diversity.fnal.gov/inclusion-matters-archive/)Inclusion Matters 2023 Highlights Black History Month Black Inventors Hall of Fame Museum: James Howard shared the importance of the Black Inventors Hall of Fame Museum and showcased some of its inventors. Book Club Discussion: A Black Woman’s Journey from Cotton Picking to College Professor: Lessons about Race, Class and Gender in America by Dr. Pratt-Clarke: The Women’s Initiative and African American/Black Association LRGs held an intersectional book club for members to discuss the book in advance of the author’s virtual talk. A Discussion with Dr. Menah Pratt-Clarke: Dr. Pratt-Clarke spoke virtually with the Fermilab community on her book, her experiences, and her work in equity in academia. National Engineers Week: A presentation by Kimberly Moore: In celebration of National Engineers Week, Dr. Kimberly Moore shared her education and entrepreneurship journey, challenges she faced along the way and the impact her mentors had in fueling her desire to build her own engineering firm. Celebrating Fermilab Interns National Intern Day: Fermilab celebrated the largest cohort of summer interns to date during Intern Week at Fermilab. More than 300 interns, spanning across backgrounds and educational disciplines, participated in site tours, won giveaways, and got to know fellow interns and colleagues during an ice cream social. Accessibility and Psychological Safety Creating Psychological Safety in the Workplace: This virtual session addressed how leaders can foster a psychologically safe environment and explored why people may feel psychologically unsafe without their leaders even realizing it. Mental Health Awareness: The virtual session addressed signs and symptoms of distress and effective ways of providing support for co-workers and included exercises for developing these skills. How World Events Can Impact Veterans’ Mental Health: This virtual training helped veterans process events around the world that may impact their mental health and also trained relatives and friends of military veterans on ways to be supportive. Building Disability Culture: Solidarity Not Charity Workshop: This two-hour virtual workshop introduced disability culture and how to understand disability as a social justice issue. Skills gained include learning how to notice ableism and intervene, understanding and assessing one’s own organizational culture, and building accessible organizations. Americans with Disabilities (ADA): Requesting Reasonable Accommodations and What You Need to Know: Human Resources and the Fermi Accessibility Communities or FACts co-sponsored a hybrid presentation focused on the process for requesting accommodations at Fermilab followed by Q&A session. New and returning programming also included: LGBTQ+ Safe Zone Training, a workshop developed by the Spectrum Community LRG on creating a welcoming and inclusive space for LGBTQ+ members of the Fermilab community. - Courageous Conversations, a series that aims to increase awareness and engagement at Fermilab of our military-affiliated persons from the United States and Foreign Nations. - How to be an Effective Mentor for Underrepresented STEM Trainees: Dr. Antentor O. Hinton, Jr., and Dr. Haysetta D. Shuler presented virtually on what good mentoring looks like, including learning how to motivate and support individuals. - Symmetry style guide: Writing about people with dignity: Symmetry Editor-in-Chief Kathryn Jepsen presented the Symmetry style guide, based on more than 50 references from organizations such as the National Association of Hispanic Journalists and the Transgender Journalists Association, to answer people-focused questions such as “How do you quote a source who communicates using sign language?” and “When is it appropriate to mention a source’s race?” - Progress Flag Recognition: Fermilab permanently raised the Progress Flag with a short ceremony commemorating Pride Month 2023. - NSBE: Engineering the Future: Fermilab hosted founders of the National Society of Black Engineers, a 15,000 member organization founded 48 years ago, for a panel and discussion exploring how having diverse perspectives in engineering provides the opportunity to leave a legacy that enriches the future. - Inclusion Matters 2022 Highlights Inclusion Matters 2022: “Embracing the Authenticity of Each Other” combined first-time celebrations and recurring learning opportunities for a comprehensive calendar of events. Events were held virtually, in person, and in hybrid format, and all were invited to these open events to build a more inclusive community. The Misreadings of “The Paper Menagerie”: The Office of Equity, Diversity and Inclusion and the Asian Pacific Association LRG welcomed author Ken Liu in honor of Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month. Liu presented a lecture on his short story “The Paper Menagerie.” It tells a heart-touching story of a biracial child with an American dad and Chinese mom, illustrating the hardship of identity and self-acceptance. The discussion focused on the inspirations behind the story, its reception, and why the label “Asian-American literature” often generates flawed interpretive frameworks for American literature by writers of Asian descent. Juneteenth: As part of Fermilab’s first Juneteenth celebration, the African American/Black Association and Office of Equity, Diversity and Inclusion co-sponsored two events: the DuSable Museum Panel Discussion on how we engage with freedom, and a keynote address by Michael Childress, President, DuPage County NAACP, on the historical context of the holiday and its significance and importance today. Bison & Bikes: Fermilab Young Professionals hosted an bike tour across Fermilab’s tallgrass prairie, savannah, shrubland and more to visit and learn about new and historic buildings and experiments. New and returning programming also included: The Spectrum Community LRG marched for the first time in the local Chicago and Aurora Pride Parades. - Book Club sponsored by the Women’s Initiative and partnering LRGs to discuss fiction and nonfiction stories about the intersectional experiences of marginalized communities. - LGBTQ+ Safe Zone Training, a workshop developed by the Spectrum Community LRG on creating a welcoming and inclusive space for LGBTQ+ members of the Fermilab community. - A showcase of the Latinas in STEM Foundation and presentation on “How we can work together to build a more inclusive STEM future.” - Inclusion Matters 2021 Highlights EDI Contribution Recognition: Quarterly highlights on the contributions by members of the Fermilab community in promoting diversity and inclusion. Employees were nominated by their colleagues, and they were showcased in Fermilab today and the monthly Particles newsletter as an expression of gratitude. Inclusive Communication with Gratitude: Led by DEI trainer Anna Burroughs, this event featured strategies and techniques for integrating elements of appreciation for cultural differences and contributions of Fermilab staff. Attendees examined their own cultural identities while learning how to effectively communicate with people of different backgrounds and identities. Presentation on Microaggressions: Dr. Adia Gooden provided practical strategies in understanding microaggressions and identifying their impact in the workplace. Imposter Syndrome: Pearl Sandick of the University of Utah presented on the causes of impostor syndrome in young scientists and possible solutions as young members take more steps in their career. The presentation included tips for Fermilab mentors on understanding and combating imposter syndrome. Additional and returning programming included: People First Language in the Workplace, a workshop on acknowledging people are not defined by their disabilities or any single characteristic. Instead we work to promote a gratitude-based culture by developing language that promotes Fermilab community members. - LGBTQ+ Safe Zone Training, a workshop developed by the Spectrum Community LRG on creating a welcoming and inclusive space for LGBTQ+ members of the Fermilab community. - Panels and symposiums for the Laboratory Resource Groups where members and leaders can talk about their missions, current initiatives, and ways to get involved. - Virtual film screening of the 2020 documentary “Picture a Scientist.” The movie describes the issues female scientists face when entering academia. - Inclusion Matters 2020 Highlights With a theme of “Building a Sense of Community,” the 2020 program built on the awareness that the 2019 series raised of the impact of social stereotypes, or biases, on workforce diversity and workplace inclusion. We should all be aware of the role each of us plays in contributing to a positive workplace culture. Cultural Empowerment Series: Chicago Sinfonietta hosted programs in honor of Black History Month and Women’s History Month using classical and contemporary music to celebrate the accomplishments of diverse artists while highlighting how we all benefit from diversity, equity, and inclusion. Through these specially designed programs, the Chicago Sinfonietta elevates cultural understanding in an intimate, interactive setting while inspiring and educating participants. Allyship + Bystander Intervention Workshop: Defining the meaning of allyship from a Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI) perspective in order to act as an effective ally; while understand the complex dynamics and “what can be done” in terms of bystander intervention. Roundtable scenarios allowed participants to work on situations that may require allyship or bystander intervention. Safety Leadership: Building Commitment by Caring: An interaction session reviewing safety leadership principles, fundamentals of a just culture, understanding human error and influences on risk-taking, and a proven approach for effective safety conversation. Multi-Generational programming: “A Chat with Millennials” Q&A with the Fermi Young Professionals LRG and “Managing the Multi-Generational Workforce” with Dr. Rob DelCampo on improving workforce interaction and preparing the laboratory for the future of the multi-generational workforce. Additional and returning programming included: People First Language in the Workplace, a workshop on acknowledging people are not defined by their disabilities or any single characteristic. Instead we work to promote a gratitude-based culture by developing language that promotes Fermilab community members. - LGBTQ+ Safe Zone Training, a workshop developed by the Spectrum Community LRG on creating a welcoming and inclusive space for LGBTQ+ members of the Fermilab community. - EEOC Training Institute: Respect in the Workplace, a workshop held multiple times throughout the year to focus on respect, acceptable workplace conduct, and the types of behaviors that contribute to a respectful and inclusive, and therefore ultimately more productive workplace. Course objectives include a section for reviewing Fermilab’s own harassment prevention policies and procedures. - Inclusion Matters 2019 Highlights Biases, conscious or unconscious, are learned social stereotypes that have real effects in the workplace. This series explores individual, organizational and societal factors that influence the intersection of diversity, equity and inclusion. Participants were challenged to examine their assumptions, increase their awareness, and consider the impact of their actions and inactions. Attending any of the Inclusion Matters Series in 2019 satisfied an individual training needs assessment required of all Fermilab employees. Gender Equity, Power Structures & Implicit Bias in STEM: Dr. Elizabeth H. Simmons, a highly-distinguished physicist and advocate for diversity in science, discussed gender equity in physics and how to minimize the impact of implicit bias in STEM. Leading from Every Seat – Chicago Sinfonietta: This interactive experience demonstrated the value proposition of inclusive leadership, cross-cultural intelligence, and the creative power of diverse work teams. The Chicago Sinfonietta shares its innovative model for embracing diversity and promoting inclusion to encourage critical conversations about equity. Pop Culture & Perceptions: Unpacking the Social Construction of Asian Americans: Using a critical race-theory lens and a historical framework, Dr. Mark R. Martell’s talk unpacked themes underlying the presentation of Asian Americans in pop culture and mainstream popular media. Conscious & Non-Conscious Biases: Evidence-Based Strategies for Change: Dr. Ashburn-Nardo delivered an academic presentation on research where participants learned individual and organizational strategies for reducing conscious and non-conscious biases in the workplace. Dumb Things Well-Intended People Say: 10 Skills to Increase Your Diversity Competence: Dr. Maura Cullen offered practical ways to quickly transform the quality and effectiveness of our interactions. Additional programming included: LGBTQ+ Safe Zone Training, a workshop developed by the Spectrum Community LRG on creating a welcoming and inclusive space for LGBTQ+ members of the Fermilab community. -
### https://diversity.fnal.gov/inclusiveresources/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://diversity.fnal.gov/inclusiveresources/)Fermilab is committed to promoting a safe, respectful, inclusive, diverse, equitable, accessible and professional work environment for the advancement of all its employees. Every member of the laboratory community plays a role in shaping a workplace culture of belonging that values, develops, rewards, retains and proactively supports the potential of a diverse workforce. Ensuring Fermilab provide resources and offerings to make informed healthcare decisions is critical to our commitment to inclusion. Employment Non-Discrimination Statement Fermilab is an Equal Opportunity Employer and believes a diverse and inclusive environment based on mutual respect is essential to our mission. Fermilab is committed to recruiting and developing the most hardworking people and does not discriminate in employment on the basis of race, ethnicity, color, religion, age, sex, gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, military/veteran status, country of birth, geography/postal code, disability, marital status, parental or gestational status, or other non-merit factor. Human Resources: askHR@fnal.gov This LGBTQ+ Benefits Guide provides a comprehensive summary to: Readily reference critically important resources - Confidentially identify healthcare options - Easily identify points of contact - Concerns Reporting Fermilab Office of General Counsel (OGC): ogc@fnal.gov Human Resources Business Partners Fermilab Security Department: Emergency: 630-840-3131 - Non-Emergency: 630-840-3414 - Resources: Spectrum Community Laboratory Resource Group (LRG) Updating your gender identity and legal and chosen names in FNAL HCM Workday Submitting legal documents to Human Resources Support from Blue Cross Blue Shield Gender pronouns in e-mail signature Wellbeing/Employee Assistance Program FRA LGBTQ+ Benefits Guide Detailed information is available on the HR Inclusive Benefits website Gender Inclusive Marriage Benefits Medical Health / Medical - Vision - Dental - Dependent Coverage - COBRA benefits - Other FMLA - Bereavement - Supplemental Life Insurance - Employee Assistance Program - Relocation/travel Assistance - Family Formation Benefits Adoption Assistance - Cryopreservation (for 1 year) - Foster Care Assistance - In-vitro Fertilization - Paid Family Leave (non-FMLA) - Transgender-Inclusive Healthcare Services and Treatment Options Reconstructive surgical procedures related to gender affirmation (including reconstructive chest, breast, and genital procedures) - Medical visits and laboratory services - Pharmaceutical coverage (e.g., hormone replacement therapies, including puberty blockers) - Short-term medical leave - Mental Health benefits - Treatment for Gender Dysphoria With a diagnosis of and treatment for gender dysphoria and deemed medically necessary: Hair removal, such as electrolysis, laser treatment, etc. - Hair removal required for reconstructive surgery - Tracheal shave/reduction - Facial feminization surgeries - Voice modification surgery - Voice modification therapy - Lipoplasty – filling for body masculinization or feminization - HIV Services and Treatment HIV testing including self-treatment options - Pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) including injectable treatment - Post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) - Antiretroviral therapy (ART) including injectable treatment - Points of Contact Health Benefits: BCBS Services and Support for LBGTQ Members: https://www.bcbsil.com/member/member-resources/lgbtq-support Blue Cross Blue Shield PPO – Group # P56727; 1-800-548-4686, www.bcbsil.com Blue Cross Blue Shield HDHP – Group # PI1340; 1-800-828-3116, www.bcbsil.com Blue Advantage HMO – Group # B51346; 1-800-892-2803, www.bcbsil.com Express Scripts Pharmacy PPO (PPO and HDHP Only); 1-866-814-7105, www.express-scripts.com Fermilab Benefits Office: benefitsoffice@fnal.gov Coming out and gender transition guide Not everyone is familiar with what it means to transition, so a Fermilab employee has compiled online resources below for employees and supervisors who are interested in learning: How does one decide to transition? The experience of being transgender is characterized by “gender dysphoria.” The Mayo Clinic explains gender dysphoria. To put it simply, it is not a choice whether you are transgender or not. However, it is a decision that one makes – to decide that you need to transition to alleviate the distress and pain caused by continuing to live as your assigned-at-birth gender. The American Psychological Association answers several questions people may have about trans people. - Gender Transition Process: The gender transition process is very personal and is different for everyone. Generally, it involves social and medical transitions. Social transition is when a person starts living as their identified gender in their personal, public, and professional lives. Medical transition generally involves any number of medical procedures that one may or may not undergo. - Terminology: There are expansive glossaries of terms that may be very helpful in speaking conversationally and technically. - Fermilab Resources: Spectrum is Fermilab’s LRG for the LGBTQ+ community. Spectrum’s webpage (https://diversity.fnal.gov/spectrum/) has some good resources. The “Resources & Tools” section has two documents that are specifically tailored to people in the world of physics. - Questions? Contact the Office of Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Accessibility at inclusion@fnal.gov
## [Newsroom](news.fnal.gov): ~9 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://news.fnal.gov/2022/07/fermilab-takes-science-to-pride/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://news.fnal.gov/2022/07/fermilab-takes-science-to-pride/)It will come as no surprise that those who work at the U.S. Department of Energy’s Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory take pride in their science. But this June, for the first time, Fermilab took its science to Pride. Led by Spectrum, the lab resource group centered on the LGBTQ+ community, Fermilab made its first appearance in both the Aurora, Illinois, and Chicago Pride Parades. The goal was twofold: Empower Fermilab’s LGBTQ+ community by showing official support for Pride celebrations, and make sure people in the wider LGBTQ+ community know that STEM careers are an option for them. “We had posters that said, ‘Ho ho, hey hey, queers do science every day,’” said Jean Reising, a web applications developer who led Spectrum’s participation in the parades. “People in Chicago started to chant it even before we did. I felt so much pride to be a member of the community and have Fermilab there to say to the world, ‘We are really supportive of this community.’” Marchers carried armfuls of beads and a banner bearing Fermilab’s logo and a twist on the lab’s mission statement: “Proudly solving the mysteries of matter, energy, space and time.” The crowd cheered them on, with the occasional question about the Higgs boson or whether the particle accelerator was currently running. “People were shouting, ‘Yay, Fermilab!’” said Kathleen Venn Bowers, a human resources specialist who marched in the Aurora parade, costumed as a bison, Fermilab’s unofficial mascot. “I will take away those memories for life. Everyone was so energized. It was great to be there as a team to support EDI [equity, diversity and inclusion] that we are trying so hard to bring about both at the lab and in society.” The goal was twofold: Empower Fermilab’s LGBTQ+ community by showing official support for Pride celebrations, and make sure people in the wider LGBTQ+ community know that STEM careers are an option for them. Spectrum has led several initiatives to make Fermilab more inclusive, including increasing the number of gender-neutral bathrooms, conducting Safe Zone trainings, and updating Fermilab forms to be gender neutral or reflect non-binary identities. The group is also working through requirements to participate in the Human Rights Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index, which rates workplaces on their inclusive practices. “There are many areas where there’s work to be done,” said Erica Snider, a neutrino physicist at Fermilab. “Participating in things like Pride helps us raise awareness of the lab and the importance of inclusion, and the importance of being able to be yourself in order to do your work.” “Fermilab formed Spectrum in 2015 to bring greater focus and support to the LGBTQ+ community. Participation in the Pride parade is an important step in raising awareness of our efforts,” said Sandra Charles, who leads Fermilab’s equity, diversity and inclusion office. “Our work, and the work of every member of the Fermilab community, is to embed a culture where every individual feels fully supported and valued—because they are.” While marching down Chicago’s Halsted Street, Fermilab senior compensation analyst Pete Cholewinski reflected on the shift in attitudes toward the LGBTQ+ community and his own journey. “I remembered being a young man, recently out, repressed, walking down this same street,” said Cholewinski, who is a Spectrum board member, along with Reising and Snider. “I never would have imagined that someday I’d be a proudly out and married gay man, marching down the middle of the street with my co-workers, all of us supported by our workplace and cheered on by a huge crowd.” Buoyed by the experience, members of Spectrum have plans to march in Pride parades again next year. “I felt we were the source of some of the energy people feel when they come to the parade,” Snider said. “I’m really happy we were able to give Fermilab a presence and be visible in this special way.” Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory is supported by the Office of Science of the U.S. Department of Energy. The Office of Science is the single largest supporter of basic research in the physical sciences in the United States and is working to address some of the most pressing challenges of our time. For more information, please visit science.energy.gov.
### https://news.fnal.gov/tag/diversity-equity-inclusion/page/3/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://news.fnal.gov/tag/diversity-equity-inclusion/page/3/)Roshanda Spillers is a lifelong student. With five academic degrees under her belt and more to come, she’s one of the vital lab staff who make sure that the experiments’ electronics are in working order and that the particle accelerators are well-maintained. A new grandmother who’s learning piano while going to school, she encourages those who love science to pursue their dreams relentlessly. diversity equity and inclusion From Donne e Scienza, Feb. 5, 2021: In this interview, Fermilab scientist Anna Grassellino talks about quantum computing, her career trajectory, and women and girls in STEM. Three physicists share their experiences learning and communicating physics in a foreign language: English. Because of English’s hegemony in science and the world, aspiring scientists in non-English-speaking countries must learn English in school to pursue a career in science. In some cases, science classes are even taught entirely in English. From Wired, July 14, 2020: Companies and universities have long relied on seminars to reduce racism, despite lackluster results. Maybe institution leaders can salvage the format. Fermilab scientist Brian Nord weighs in on the value of certain diversity-centered activities at academic institutions. From DOE, June 18, 2020: It’s Pride Month, and several national laboratories have employee resource groups to advance LGBTQ+ individuals equality, inclusion and diversity in the workplace. Fermilab physicist Erica Snider, a member of the LGBTQ+ laboratory resource group Spectrum and the lab’s Scientist Advisory Council, will participate in the panel discussion on June 23 called “A Day in the Life: A Panel Discussion about LGBTQ+ inclusion.”
### https://news.fnal.gov/tag/lgbtq/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://news.fnal.gov/tag/lgbtq/)lgbtq A group of U.S. national laboratories, including Fermilab; publishers; journals and other organizations, is making it easier for researchers to update their names on past publications. From the New York Times, July 28, 2021: On Wednesday, a group of laboratories including Fermilab and major scientific publishers, announced an agreement that aims to simplify the process of applying new names to old papers for transgender scientists by shifting much of the administrative labor from the researcher to the laboratory. From NBC News, July 28, 2021: Read more about how Fermilab is committed to the effort to help reduce barriers for trans researchers, coordinated by Berkeley Lab. This new partnership was announced Wednesday among all of the Department of Energy’s 17 U.S. national laboratories and many prominent publishers, journals and other organizations in scientific publishing that will streamline the name change request process in past published papers for researchers.
### https://news.fnal.gov/tag/meeting/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://news.fnal.gov/tag/meeting/)From the Chicago Quantum Exchange, Oct. 29, 2020: Quantum technology experts from around the country will convene virtually from Nov. 11-13 to forge new partnerships amid an exciting year for quantum research. The third annual Chicago Quantum Summit will feature Anna Grassellino, director of the Superconducting Quantum Materials and Systems Center at Fermilab. meeting From APS News, October 2020: This summer, Fermilab scientist Marco Del Tutto spent weeks building the 3-D virtual rooms for the Neutrino 2020 conference. Like many conferences in 2020, the meeting occurred over the now ubiquitous application Zoom. But this conference had twists and flourishes: a poster session conducted in virtual reality, pixelated renderings of plants and couches, and Chicago-specific settings. Next week, scientists with connections to U.S. particle physics will make their morning coffee, boot up their computers and log in to a virtual community planning meeting with over 1,500 colleagues. The four-day gathering will set the stage for a process known as Snowmass, during which scientists will develop a collective vision for the next decade of U.S. particle physics research. The Snowmass process seeks to identify the most promising questions to explore in future research. From Quality Digest, July 30, 2020: There is a critical need for a platform and community to support the recruiting and grooming of individuals in the metrology workforce and those interested in entering a career in metrology. For many professionals, the Coordinate Metrology Society is that platform. Fermilab’s Jana Barker weighs in on the opportunity provided by the Coordinate Metrology Society Conference. From CERN Courier, July 23, 2020: Fermilab scientists Steve Brice and Sam Zeller and University of Minnesota scientist Marvin Marshak authored this article on the Neutrino 2020 conference, in which 4,350 people from every continent, including Antarctica, participated. The online program, hosted by Fermilab and the University of Minnesota comprised eight half-days over two weeks, four poster sessions with both web-based and virtual-reality displays, and the use of the Slack platform for speaker questions and ongoing discussions. From DOE, June 18, 2020: It’s Pride Month, and several national laboratories have employee resource groups to advance LGBTQ+ individuals equality, inclusion and diversity in the workplace. Fermilab physicist Erica Snider, a member of the LGBTQ+ laboratory resource group Spectrum and the lab’s Scientist Advisory Council, will participate in the panel discussion on June 23 called âA Day in the Life: A Panel Discussion about LGBTQ+ inclusion.â