



# [Forensic Technology Center of Excellence – A program of the National Institute of Justice](forensiccoe.org): ~1 pages censored since 1/20/25

## https://forensiccoe.org/gender-inclusive-care-lgbtq-population-sexual-assault/?utm_source=nij-gov&utm_medium=website&utm_campaign=nij


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://forensiccoe.org/gender-inclusive-care-lgbtq-population-sexual-assault/?utm_source=nij-gov&utm_medium=website&utm_campaign=nij)This webinar originally occurred on August 30, 2018 Duration: 1 hour Overview This webinar will discuss considerations to best serve sexual assault victims of LGBTQ community, particularly transgender survivors, and present case studies to illustrate gender inclusive responses to sexual assault. To ensure the care and safety of all sexual assault victims, it is imperative that sexual assault forensic examiners and investigators examine their practices to ensure all needs of the LGBTQ Community are met. This webinar will discuss and explore safe care of the sexual assault victims within the LGBTQ community and will focus on the transgender community to better understand the spectrum of gender. The presenter will discuss the difference between gender and sexuality and discuss ways to look at forensic practices to increase gender awareness and inclusion. The webinar will illustrate practical ways to incorporate education, awareness, and improve services provided currently to ensure victims from any culture may feel safer reporting sexual assault. Additionally, the presenter will discuss reasons why victims may not access care and look at the increased risk of sexual violence in the LGBTQ population. Further discussion will include the implications for investigators, forensic science examiners, and others working sexual assault cases involving gender minorities. Presenter Ashley Smith | Sexual Assault Nurse Examiner and coordinates a SANE program in Canada - Funding for this Forensic Technology Center of Excellence webinar has been provided by the National Institute of Justice, Office of Justice Programs, U.S. Department of Justice. The opinions, findings, and conclusions orÂ recommendations expressed in this webinar are those ofÂ the presenter(s) and do not necessarily reflect those of the U.S. Department of Justice. Contact us atÂ ForensicCOE@rti.orgÂ with any questions and subscribe to ourÂ newsletterÂ for notifications.