



# [HUDHUD.gov / U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)](hud.gov): ~7 pages censored since 1/20/25

## [archives.glb.hud.gov](archives.glb.hud.gov): ~7 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://archives.glb.hud.gov/local/ny/goodstories/2015-06-26.cfm


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://archives.glb.hud.gov/local/ny/goodstories/2015-06-26.cfm)Home | En Español | Contact Us | A to Z| HUD Marks LGBTQ Pride Month with Performance from Ali Forney Theater of the Oppressed June is LGBTQ Pride Month, and HUD's New York Regional Office marked the occasion with an enlightening performance from the Theater of the Oppressed Ali Forney Troupe at the Jacob K. Javits building in Manhattan. The Ali Forney Center has been heralded for their full continuum of care approach to services for LGBTQ homeless youth, and their founder, Carl Siciliano, was named a White House Champion of Change by President Obama citing the wide recognition AFC's programs have received for their quality and innovation. The performers made their work particularly relevant for HUD's staff, illustrating gaps in transitional and youth shelter programs and rules that can leave LGBTQ youth with limited options that lead to homelessness. The dialogue sparked by the performance was enhanced further when HUD employees had the chance to jump into scenes and take them in new directions, "rehearsing for life" as put by the troupe's leader. Learn more about HUD's efforts to ensure Fair Housing for the LGBT Community at hud.gov/fairhousing, or at this post (http://blog.hud.gov/index.php/2015/06/16/protecting-every-persons-access-to-housing/#more-8506) on HUD's blog, The HUDdle. ### | Content Archived: February 1, 2017|
### https://archives.glb.hud.gov/news/2021/pr21-022.cfm


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://archives.glb.hud.gov/news/2021/pr21-022.cfm)HUD No. 21-022HUD Public Affairs (202) 708-0685 | For ReleaseFriday February 12, 2021 | WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: HUD's Directive to Enforce the Fair Housing Act to Prohibit Discrimination on the Basis of Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) announced that it will administer and enforce the Fair Housing Act to prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. The HUD directive begins implementation of the policy set forth in President Biden's Executive Order 13988 on Preventing and Combating Discrimination on the Basis of Gender Identity or Sexual Orientation (www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/20/executive-order-preventing-and-combating-discrimination-on-basis-of-gender-identity-or-sexual-orientation/). Here's what they're saying about HUD's directive to enforce the Fair Housing Act to prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity: Senator Sherrod Brown: "No one should be excluded from housing based on who they are or who they love. I applaud the Biden Administration for taking steps to ensure that HUD is finally carrying out the Bostock ruling's confirmation that civil rights protections extend to sexual orientation and gender identity." [Statement (www.banking.senate.gov/newsroom/majority/brown-discrimination-has-no-place-in-our-housing-system), 2/11/21] Senator Martin Heinrich: "So pleased to see this from @HUDgov. Absolutely no one should be discriminated against simply for being who they are. I commend the Biden administration for taking action to guarantee that." [Tweet (https://twitter.com/MartinHeinrich/status/1359944822791041025), 2/11/21] Senator Tim Kaine: "To this day, many LGBTQ+ Americans are turned away from housing opportunities because of who they love. I've seen firsthand the impact housing can have on a family's health and economic prospects. It's long past time we end this discrimination and ensure all Americans have equal access to housing. I'm pleased to see the Biden Administration take immediate action to protect the rights of more Americans as they find a home." [Statement, 2/11/2021] Equality Caucus Chair Congressman David N. Cicilline: "No person should ever lose their home because of their sexual orientation or gender identity. It is un-American. I am pleased that HUD is taking action today to crack down on discrimination against LGBTQ+ people. This is a big step in the right direction, and I thank President Biden for his leadership on this important issue. LGBTQ+ people should be able to live their lives free from the fear of discrimination, regardless of which party controls the White House. That's why, in the weeks ahead, it is critical that Congress pass the Equality Act to establish permanent federal protections against discrimination in housing, education, employment, and other key areas of day-to-day life. I look forward to working with the President and my colleagues to get the job done." [Statement, 2/11/21] Equality Caucus Co-Chair Congresswoman Angie Craig: "I am encouraged by today's announcement, which reaffirms that discrimination in the housing market on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity is unreasonable, immoral and illegal. This action is another step in a long march toward unraveling a pattern of discrimination against LGBTQ Americans enacted by the Trump Administration. While we still have a long way to go, I am proud to have President Biden and his Administration standing alongside us in our ongoing fight for equality." [Statement, 2/11/21] Equality Caucus Co-Chair Congresswoman Sharice L. Davids: "I am thrilled that HUD took an important step today to fully enforce the Fair Housing Act and prevent discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity in federally funded housing programs. No one should be discriminated against because of who they love or how they identity - but sadly this happens all too frequently. That is why we must finally get the Equality Act signed into law, so we can outlaw this kind of discrimination in every part of our society, not just in our federally funded programs. While we celebrate this progress in the fight for LGBTQ equality, we must also recommit to the work that still lies ahead." [Statement, 2/11/21] Equality Caucus Co-Chair Congressman Mondaire Jones: "For years, so many LGBTQ+ people in this country have been housing-insecure because of the systems put in place to discriminate against us. Finding a place to live is hard enough and we should not have to deal with the additional hurdle of navigating a minefield of discrimination. Everyone deserves to feel safe at home." [Statement, 2/11/21] Equality Caucus Co-Chair Congressman Sean Patrick Maloney: "Stable, safe housing for LGBTQ people isn't a 'nice to have', it's a 'need to have'. This is the right move by the Biden Administration, and it shows the president's strong commitment to equality for LGBTQ people. Today's decision is just the beginning. Working in lock-step with the White House, I will continue our fight to codify nondiscrimination protections for all LGBTQ Americans through the advancement of the Equality Act." [Statement, 2/11/21] Equality Caucus Co-Chair Congressman Chris Pappas: "Safe and affordable housing is a fundamental human right, and I am thrilled to see the Department of Housing and Urban Development take action and prohibit discrimination on the basis of gender identity and sexual orientation. The Biden Administration has made it a priority to prevent and combat discrimination throughout the federal government, and I commend them for their efforts to ensure every American receives equal treatment under the law." [Statement, 2/11/21] Equality Caucus Co-Chair Congressman Mark Pocan: "No one should be denied a home because of their sexual orientation or gender identity. Only 22 states and the District of Columbia have explicit laws prohibiting discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity, so it is long overdue that we take federal action to enforce the Fair Housing Act for LGBTQ+ communities. At a time when so many across the nation are on the brink of homelessness and housing insecurity, we thank the Biden-Harris administration for moving swiftly to remove further obstacles to those seeking housing during this crisis. Next, Congress must pass the Fair and Equal Housing Act to make President Biden's executive order the law of the land once and for all." [Statement, 2/11/21] Congressman David Price: "@HUDgov says discrimination based on sexuality or gender identity violates the Fair Housing Act. This sends a powerful signal that bias has no place in housing or emergency shelter." [Tweet (https://twitter.com/RepDavidEPrice/status/1360003145573797888), 2/11/21] Equality Caucus Co-Chair Congressman Mark Takano: "LGBTQ+ people are more likely to experience housing insecurity or homelessness, and rampant discrimination and economic inequality makes it harder for members of our community to secure a place to live. By administering and enforcing the Fair Housing Act to prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity, the Biden Administration is taking a major step toward combating discrimination against LGBTQ+ Americans. No one should ever be denied housing because of their identity and those who face discrimination deserve the same legal protections as everyone else. I applaud this monumental move, now let's pass the Equality Act to codify these legal protections and guarantee true equality under the law for every American." [Statement, 2/11/21] Congressman Mike Quigley: "Today's announcement, in the first weeks of the Biden administration, is a declaration that LGBTQ rights are human rights and that housing discrimination on the basis of gender identity or sexual orientation is unacceptable and should be relegated to the shameful past." [Statement (https://quigley.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/quigley-statement-hud-announcement-enforcement-fair-housing-act), 2/11/21] Congresswoman Jennifer Wexton: "HUD's actions today to fully enforce the Fair Housing Act will guarantee protections for our LGBTQ friends and neighbors and ensure every American is able to access housing free from discrimination." [Statement (https://wexton.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=460), 2/11/21] GLBTQ Legal Advocates & Defenders: "@HUDgov has announced it will protect LGBTQ people from discrimination in housing and shelters! This is an essential step toward ensuring LGBTQ people can live safely and free from discrimination. #HousingSavesLives" [Tweet (https://twitter.com/GLADLaw/status/1359953307750588425), 2/11/21] Alphonso David, President, Human Rights Campaign: "Today, thanks to the Department of Housing and Urban Development and President Biden, LGBTQ people can rest assured that if they are denied housing in an emergency or refused rental of an apartment because of their sexual orientation or gender identity they will have recourse under federal law. This announcement implementing the Supreme Court's Bostock ruling and applying it to the Fair Housing Act will make a huge impact on the lives of LGBTQ people, particularly transgender people and LGBTQ people of color who face disproportionate rates of discrimination. From Day One, the Biden administration has made unprecedented and immediate changes to the lives of the 11 million LGBTQ people across the country and we look forward to continuing our work together with the president and his administration moving forward." [Statement (www.hrc.org/press-releases/human-rights-campaign-applauds-department-of-housing-and-urban-developments-enforcement-of-the-fair-housing-act-to-prohibit-discrimination-against-lgbtq-people), 2/11/21] Karen Loewy, Senior Counsel and Seniors Strategist, Lambda Legal: "Lambda Legal applauds this step by the Biden Administration to make the promise of equal housing opportunity real for LGBTQ people across the country. As our housing work has demonstrated and the Bostock decision confirmed, the harassment and discrimination that LGBTQ people face in housing are forms of sex discrimination that federal law will not tolerate. These actions by HUD will both prevent future discrimination and ensure that those who have experienced discrimination have a clear avenue for relief." [Statement (www.lambdalegal.org/news/dc_20210211_lambda-legal-hails-biden-administration-for-extending-fair-housing-protections-to-lgbtq-individuals), 2/11/21] Linda Couch, Vice President of Housing Policy, LeadingAge: "In the housing market, older adults continue to face discrimination based on their gender identity and sexual orientation. HUD's stance today will bring justice to older adults who seek to participate in a housing market free from discrimination and will send a clear message to all that such discrimination is illegal." [Via McKnight's Senior Living (www.mcknightsseniorliving.com/home/news/hud-now-interprets-fair-housing-act-to-prohibit-discrimination-based-on-sexual-orientation-gender-identity/), 2/12/21] Charlie Oppler, President, National Association of Realtors®: "There are few greater human needs than housing, and to exclude LGBTQ individuals from the protections afforded to other Americans is cruel. This is a just and historic decision by HUD." [Statement (www.nar.realtor/newsroom/nar-applauds-hud-for-protecting-lgbtq-civil-rights), 2/11/21] David J. Johns, Executive Director, National Black Justice Coalition: "The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development's announcement this morning explicitly prohibiting housing discrimination based on sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression will help to disrupt the cycle of discrimination based housing instability that negatively impacts the lives of too many Black lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer (LGBTQ+) people, communities, and families. Having a consistent roof over one's head is a fundamental pillar in being able to thrive. We applaud the Biden, Harris administration for their immediate implementation of the U.S. Supreme Court's Bostock decision and look forward to additional actions to explicitly ensure that these important considerations are enforced and applied to all homeless shelters. Every American deserves access to the programs and support services that enable them to survive and succeed, especially during the current collision of health, economic, and social crises." [Statement (https://nbjc.org/breaking-hud-announces-it-will-administer-and-enforce-the-fair-housing-act-to-prohibit-discrimination-against-lgbtq-persons/), 2/11/21] Shannon Minter, Legal Director, National Center for Lesbian Rights: "Homelessness and housing insecurity are critical issues for many LGBTQ people - particularly transgender individuals who often face serious bias and barriers to finding safe and secure housing. This guidance makes clear that federal law prevents federally funded shelters from turning people away because of their sexual orientation or gender identity, as well as addressing anti-LGBTQ discrimination in all other areas of federal housing law." [Statement (www.nclrights.org/about-us/press-release/nclr-hails-biden-administrations-historic-inclusion-of-lgbtq-individuals-in-housing-protections/), 2/11/21] Mara Keisling, Executive Director, National Center for Transgender Equality: "What the Biden administration is doing now is incredibly important, doing right by some of the most marginalized people in the United States who need access to federal housing programs. What's really significant about it is they are using the Fair Housing Act, which is what we think the [Supreme Court] decision would require." [Via The Washington Post (www.washingtonpost.com/business/2021/02/11/hud-expand-fair-housing-protections-transgender-people/), 2/11/21] Jesse Van Tol, CEO, National Community Reinvestment Coalition: "We are glad to see that HUD is moving forward to implement President Biden's executive orders without delay, and taking strong action to prohibit housing discrimination, which is so often faced by the LGTBQ+ community. This community faces some of the highest rates of homelesses, which stems in large part from discrimination. They also face discrimination at many homelesses shelters. "Full enforcement of the Fair Housing Act to prohibit discrimination on the basis of gender identity or sexual orientation was long overdue, and we applaud HUD for moving quickly." [Statement (https://ncrc.org/ncrc-applauds-hud-announcement-to-prohibit-housing-discrimination-based-on-sexual-orientation-gender-identity/), 2/11/21] National Fair Housing Alliance: ".@HUDgov has announced that it will use the #FairHousingAct to prohibit discrim. on the basis of sexual orientation & gender. This is great news & we hope this step is one of many that the Biden admin will take to challenge systemic discrim. in housing." [Tweet (https://twitter.com/natfairhouse/status/1359905536859398146), 2/11/21] National Homelessness Law Center: "@HUDgov reinstates full scope of the Fair Housing Act, prohibiting housing discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. This is a win for the LGBTQ community and housing advocates across the country!" [Tweet (https://twitter.com/NLCHPhomeless/status/1359921797454565377), 2/11/21] Erin Uritus, CEO, Out and Equal Workplace Advocates: "Unfortunately, housing discrimination is the lived reality for many LGBTQ people in our country - and this is especially true for the transgender community. Thankfully, President Biden is bringing the full force of the federal government to bear so that no LGBTQ American will be denied a roof over their head just because of who they are or who they love." [Via HousingWire (www.housingwire.com/articles/hud-vows-to-protect-lgbtq-from-housing-discrimination/), 2/11/21] PFLAG National: "At the direction of @POTUS, @HUDgov will enforce the #FairHousingAct to prohibit discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. Thank you for seeing and protecting our #LGBTQ+ loved ones and their families!" [Tweet (https://twitter.com/PFLAG/status/1359866125077520387), 2/11/21] Dylan Waguespack, Public Policy Director, True Colors United: "Certainly the Obama administration made a lot of headway into ending housing discrimination against LGBTQ people, and it's really good to see that progress picked back up." [Via The Washington Post (www.washingtonpost.com/business/2021/02/11/hud-expand-fair-housing-protections-transgender-people/), 2/11/21] ### HUD's mission is to create strong, sustainable, inclusive communities and quality affordable homes for all. More information about HUD and its programs is available at www.hud.gov and https://espanol.hud.gov. You can also connect with HUD on social media or sign up for news alerts on HUD's Email List. HUD COVID-19 Resources and Fact Sheets
### https://archives.glb.hud.gov/local/ma/goodstories/2022-06-24.cfm


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://archives.glb.hud.gov/local/ma/goodstories/2022-06-24.cfm)|Home | En Español | Contact Us | A to Z | Pryde of accomplishment in redevelopment of former school Boston celebrated Pride Month in historic fashion on June 17 as officials broke ground on The Pryde, the first LGBTQ-friendly affordable senior housing community in the city. HUD Assistant Deputy Secretary for Field Policy and Management, Michele Perez, joined City of Boston Mayor Michele Wu; Congresswoman Ayanna Pressley; Massachusetts Lt. Governor Karyn Polito and other key partners to celebrate the historic groundbreaking. "At HUD, we are focused on housing and community development with a dedication to equity, inclusive communities, and quality, affordable homes for all," said HUD Assistant Deputy Secretary Perez. "HUD's greatest hope is that these efforts are sustainable and become a normal, natural way we operate. That is why it is so inspiring to be here to break ground on The Pryde today." When complete, the renovations of the former Barton Rogers School will preserve the beauty of the original 1899 building and its two additions while creating 74 new mixed-income rental units that will be welcoming to seniors 62 years and older. All units will be deed-restricted in perpetuity and will provide affordable, safe housing for seniors across a wide variety of incomes, including eight units for individuals who are homeless or who require rental assistance. "As Boston's resident's age, the need for safe, income-restricted housing that is welcoming to all remains essential," said Mayor Wu. "This new development will be an incredible asset to the neighborhood, offering seniors housing, along with gardens, walking trails, an art studio with gallery space, and other community benefits. I look forward to our work ahead to make more of these projects a reality." The Pryde is located near shops and restaurants, public transportation and a variety of cultural and outdoor amenities. "LGBTQ seniors face higher rates of housing discrimination, lower incomes, higher unemployment, and increased food insecurity," said Aileen Montour, president of LGBTQ Senior Housing, Inc. "We are proud to work closely with all project partners to help address this inequity in Boston through affordable, inclusive housing and set an example for other cities throughout the country." The project includes $825,000 in HUD HOME funding. ### |Content Archived: January 3, 2024
### https://archives.glb.hud.gov/local/nj/goodstories/2013-12-09.cfm


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://archives.glb.hud.gov/local/nj/goodstories/2013-12-09.cfm)| Seminar on LGBT Protections in Federal Employment, Housing, Education & Human Services On November 21, the HUD Newark Office hosted a seminar on Federal LGBT protections in collaboration with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the U.S. Department of Education, and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The event took place at Rutgers University and was co-sponsored by: the Rutgers Law School LGBTQ Caucus, the Rutgers LGBTQ & Diversity Resource Center, and the Essex County LGBTQ Advisory Board. The seminar discussed legal protections for LGBT people under Federal law. Presenters included: Rosemary DiSavino, Esq., U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; J. Frank Vespa-Papaleo, Esq, U.S. Department of Housing & Urban Development; Ronald Scott, Esq. , U.S. Department of Education - Office for Civil Rights; Frank Musumici, U.S. Department of Health & Human Services - Office for Civil Rights; Jeanne LoCicero, Esq., American Civil Liberties Union of New Jersey; Luanne Peterpaul, Esq., Garden State Equality; Jeffrey Campbell, Hudson Pride Connections Center; Robyn Gigl, Esq., LGBT Rights Section, New Jersey State Bar Association; and, Professor Steven Goldstein of Rutgers Law School. Free CLE credits were provided. Technical assistance on HUD's LGBT rule was provided to the approximately 50 attendees, which included students, attorneys and persons that serve the LGBT community in New Jersey. Frank Vespa-Papaleo addresses the audience| ### |
## [HUD Archives](archives.hud.gov): ~7 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://archives.hud.gov/local/ny/goodstories/2015-06-11.cfm


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://archives.hud.gov/local/ny/goodstories/2015-06-11.cfm)Home | En Español | Contact Us | A to Z| HUD Region II hosts Federal Interagency Working Group on Runaway and Homeless LGBTQ Youth New York, NY - The HUD Region II New York City Regional Office hosted multiple federal, state and city agencies to discuss issues and available resources for runaway and homeless youth, with emphasis on the LGBTQ community. HUD Region II Senior Management Analyst Samuel Miller coordinated the event moderated by Edline Jaquet, Policy Analyst, of the Supportive Housing Network of New York. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, New York State offices of Children and Family Services, Temporary Disability Assistance, Department of Health, and the Office of Mental Health; as well as the New York City offices of Youth and Community Development, Homeless Services, Administration for Children's Services, and the Human Resources Administration, discussed chronic problems of runaway and homeless youth, and brought to the forefront pressing issues that warrant immediate attention to facilitate addressing the needs of runaway and homeless LGBTQ youth. The group focused on sharing their resources to assist this community and detail action items that can be addressed to improve the options for homeless youth. The group will continue to meet to focus on maximizing available resources in the hopes of improving the quality of life of these youths. ### | Content Archived: February 1, 2017|
### https://archives.hud.gov/local/nj/goodstories/2013-12-09.cfm


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://archives.hud.gov/local/nj/goodstories/2013-12-09.cfm)| | Seminar on LGBT Protections in Federal Employment, Housing, Education & Human Services On November 21, the HUD Newark Office hosted a seminar on Federal LGBT protections in collaboration with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the U.S. Department of Education, and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The event took place at Rutgers University and was co-sponsored by: the Rutgers Law School LGBTQ Caucus, the Rutgers LGBTQ & Diversity Resource Center, and the Essex County LGBTQ Advisory Board. The seminar discussed legal protections for LGBT people under Federal law. Presenters included: Rosemary DiSavino, Esq., U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission; J. Frank Vespa-Papaleo, Esq, U.S. Department of Housing & Urban Development; Ronald Scott, Esq. , U.S. Department of Education - Office for Civil Rights; Frank Musumici, U.S. Department of Health & Human Services - Office for Civil Rights; Jeanne LoCicero, Esq., American Civil Liberties Union of New Jersey; Luanne Peterpaul, Esq., Garden State Equality; Jeffrey Campbell, Hudson Pride Connections Center; Robyn Gigl, Esq., LGBT Rights Section, New Jersey State Bar Association; and, Professor Steven Goldstein of Rutgers Law School. Free CLE credits were provided. Technical assistance on HUD's LGBT rule was provided to the approximately 50 attendees, which included students, attorneys and persons that serve the LGBT community in New Jersey. | Frank Vespa-Papaleo addresses the audience ###
## [HUDHUD.gov / U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)](www.hud.gov): ~7 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://www.hud.gov/program_offices/fair_housing_equal_opp/housing_discrimination_and_persons_identifying_lgbtq


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.hud.gov/program_offices/fair_housing_equal_opp/housing_discrimination_and_persons_identifying_lgbtq)Resources on housing discrimination and persons identifying as Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and/or Queer/Questioning (LGBTQ) Persons who identify as LGBTQ and believe they have experienced housing discrimination because of their actual or perceived sexual orientation or gender identity can assert their rights under the Fair Housing Act by filing a complaint with HUD. HUD will accept and investigate all legally sufficient complaints of sex discrimination, including discrimination because of actual or perceived gender identity or sexual orientation, and enforce the Fair Housing Act where it finds such discrimination occurred or is about to occur. - In addition, some LGBTQ persons may have claims arising under other provisions of the Act, e.g., race, national origin, color, religion, disability and familial status. - HUDās Equal Access Rule also requires that eligibility determinations for housing assisted by HUD or subject to a mortgage insured by HUD be made regardless of actual or perceived gender identity, sexual orientation, or marital status. - Fair Housing Act Protections from Sex Discrimination Including Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity - HUD's Equal Access Rule Protections for Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity, and Marital Status - Know Your Rights Under the Fair Housing Act and HUDās Equal Access Rule - How to File a Housing Discrimination Complaint - LGBTQ Housing Discrimination Resources - Fair Housing Act Protections from Sex Discrimination Include Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity The Fair Housing Act prohibits housing and housing-related discrimination because of race, color, national origin, religion, sex (including gender identity and sexual orientation), familial status, and disability. A person who has experienced (or is about to experience) discrimination in housing because of sex, including their actual or perceived sexual orientation or gender identity, may file a complaint with HUD. HUD will investigate complaints alleging violations of the Fair Housing Act on this basis. - On June 15, 2020, the Supreme Court issued a decision in Bostock v. Clayton Cty., 140 S. Ct. 1731 (2020), which held that Title VIIās prohibition against sex discrimination includes sexual orientation and gender identity. Following that decision on January 20, 2021, President Biden issued Executive Order 13988 on Preventing and Combating Discrimination on the Basis of Gender Identity or Sexual Orientation. Pursuant to that Executive Order, HUDās Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity issued a memorandum on February 11, 2021, āImplementation of Executive Order 13988 on the Enforcement of the Fair Housing Act,ā which addresses discrimination because of actual or perceived sexual orientation and gender identity under the Fair Housing Act. Where reasonable cause exists to believe that discrimination because of sex (including actual or perceived sexual orientation or gender identity) has occurred, FHEO will make a determination of reasonable cause and refer the case to HUDās Office of General Counsel for charge. If the discrimination occurs in conjunction with discrimination because of another protected characteristic, all such bases will be investigated and charged where reasonable cause exists. Similarly, HUD will conduct all activities involving the application, interpretation, and enforcement of the Fair Housing Actās prohibition on sex discrimination consistent with the Bostock decision. - Examples of housing discrimination because of sex, which includes actual or perceived gender identity and sexual orientation: A realtor refuses to show houses listed for sale to a potential buyer because the buyer is transgender. - A housing provider refuses to rent a house to a same sex couple because of their āfamily composition,ā which is comprised of two individuals of the same sex, rather than two individuals of the opposite sex. - A maintenance worker employed by a housing provider subjects a female tenant to pervasive harassment because she is a lesbian. Additional discrimination occurs when the tenant reports the harassment to the housing provider who fails to take any action to stop the harassment. - A tenant is evicted after the housing provider discovers the tenant has dated persons of the same sex and identifies as bisexual. - A same-sex couple asks a realtor to see rental units throughout the city but is only shown rental units in a part of the city known for having many LGBTQ residents. - A building manager refuses to authorize repairs to a tenantās unit after observing the tenantās teenage daughter holding hands with her girlfriend. The manager explained that he does not agree with the teenagerās āhomosexual lifestyleā and that the tenant will need to make the repairs himself. - The leasing manager at a 55+ community rejected a male tenantās request to add his same-sex partner to his lease stating, in writing, that the community only accepts married couples in unions between āone man and one woman." - Examples of housing discrimination against persons identifying as LGBTQ may also occur because of, or in addition to, other characteristics protected by the Fair Housing Act, e.g., race, national origin, color, religion, disability and familial status: It is unlawful for a landlord or housing provider of a covered dwelling to deny housing because of actual or perceived HIV/AIDS status. - A housing provider may not refuse to rent to an otherwise qualified LGBTQ family with children under age 18. - HUDās Equal Access Rule Protections For Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity, and Marital Status HUDās Equal Access Rule requires equal access to HUD housing programs without regard to a personās actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status. Housing providers that receive HUD funding or that provide housing subject to HUD-insured mortgages, and lenders that make such loans, must comply with the Rule. Specifically, HUD has issued three program rules providing equal access to housing, that together make up HUDās Equal Access Rule (āEA Ruleā or āEARā): "Equal Access to Housing in HUD Programs Regardless of Sexual Orientation or Gender Identity" This Rule requires that a determination of eligibility for housing that is assisted by HUD or subject to a mortgage insured by HUD shall be made available without regard to actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status. The rule includes a definition for sexual orientation and gender identity, and expands the definition of family in most of HUD's programs. - "Equal Access to Housing in HUD's Native American and Native Hawaiian Programs-Regardless of Sexual Orientation or Gender Identity." This Rule applies the same equal access provisions from the preceding rule to HUD's Native American and Native Hawaiian programs. These programs are also required to make a determination of eligibility for housing that is assisted by HUD or subject to a mortgage insured by HUD in accordance with the eligibility requirements provided for such program by HUD, without regard to actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status. - "Equal Access in Accordance with an Individual's Gender Identity in Community Planning and Development Programs Rule" This Rule ensures that all individuals have equal access to the Department's core programs, including shelters and other buildings and facilities, in accordance with their gender identity and in a manner that affords equal access to the individualās family. Providers that operate single-sex projects using funds awarded through the Office of Community Planning and Development (CPD) are required by the rule to provide all individuals, including transgender individuals and other individuals who do not identify with the sex they were assigned at birth, with access to programs, benefits, services, and accommodations in accordance with their gender identity without being subjected to intrusive questioning or being asked to provide documentation. This requirement includes tenant selection and admission preferences. The rule also amended the original EAR definitions for sexual orientation and gender identity. - A person who has been denied equal access to HUD-funded or HUD-insured housing by a housing provider or lender because of actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status may report it to HUD by either filing a complaint or by contacting a local FHEO office. In many instances, a violation of the Equal Access Rule will also violate the Fair Housing Act. Examples of Violations of both the Fair Housing Act and HUDās Equal Access Rule: An underwriter for an FHA-insured lender reviews a loan application by two women; both incomes are being used as the basis for the applicantsā creditworthiness. The underwriter assumes the applicants are a lesbian couple and, as a result, denies the application despite the fact that the applicants meet all requirements for the loan. - A gay man who currently uses a voucher to pay his rent contacts the property owner to request to add his male partner, who is also income-eligible, to the lease so they could live together. The owner asks, āAre you gay?ā and denies the request when the tenant confirms that he is gay. - A transgender person seeks placement in CPD-funded transitional housing. The housing staff inquire as to the transgender personās genitalia and make statements that other residents would be made uncomfortable or unsafe by the transgender person. The transitional housing staff refuse to house the transgender person in the program. - Examples of Program Violations Under HUDās Equal Access Rule: A transgender woman sought an overnight stay at a HUD-funded womanās homeless shelter with shared dormitory-style sleeping and shared, unlocked bathrooms. During the intake process, the shelter staff refused to address the transgender woman as female, misgendered her, and made other statements to discredit her gender identity. The shelter staff refused to shelter the transgender woman at the womanās shelter in accordance with her gender identity, but offered to place the transgender woman in a manās shelter. - Know Your Rights Under the Fair Housing Act and HUDās Equal Access Rule, for example: It is prohibited under the Fair Housing Act for any landlord or housing provider to discriminate against LGBTQ persons because of their actual or perceived sexual orientation or gender identity or any other reason that constitutes sex based discrimination. - It is unlawful for a landlord or housing provider of a covered dwelling to deny housing because of actual or perceived HIV/AIDS status under the Fair Housing Act, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, and the Americans with Disabilities Act. - It is prohibited for a lender to deny an HUD-insured mortgage to any qualified applicant based on their actual or perceived sexual orientation, gender identity, or marital status. - Under the Equal Access Rule, HUD-funded homeless providers must place clients in a shelter or facility that corresponds to the gender with which the person identifies, taking health and safety concerns into consideration. Providers must also ensure that their policies do not isolate or segregate clients based upon gender identity. - How to File a Housing Discrimination Complaint If you believe you have experienced (or are about to experience) housing discrimination, you may contact HUD's Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity at (800) 669-9777 to file a complaint. You may also contact your local FHEO office or file a complaint online by visiting https://www.hud.gov/program_offices/fair_housing_equal_opp/online-complaint LGBTQ Housing Discrimination Resources HUD FHEO Memorandum on Implementation of Executive Order 13988 on the Enforcement of the Fair Housing Act - LGBTQ Homelessness on the HUD Exchange - NFHTA Forum: LGBTQ+: Fostering Understanding and Strengthening Fair Housing for All - Equal Access Poster - Last updated on February 1, 2022