



# [– Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory](lbl.gov): ~7 pages censored since 1/20/25

## [diversity.lbl.gov](diversity.lbl.gov): ~7 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://diversity.lbl.gov/2021/02/12/helpful-uc-resources-for-lgbtq-staff/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://diversity.lbl.gov/2021/02/12/helpful-uc-resources-for-lgbtq-staff/)Calling all LGBTQ+ colleagues: UCnet includes information and resources for you, including the LGBTQ+ Resource Centers page with up-to-date contacts for each campus. And, we’ve created a new page that outlines transgender and nonbinary health benefits, including downloadable fact sheets and info for all UC health plans.
### https://diversity.lbl.gov/tag/lgbtq/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://diversity.lbl.gov/tag/lgbtq/)Film Screening & Director’s Discussion: Acuitzeramo – June 28, 2022 In celebration of Pride Month, the Latin American and Native American (LANA) employee resource group, in partnership with Lambda ERG, invites everyone to a virtual screening of the award-winning short film “Acuitzeramo” followed by a discussion and Q&A with the film’s director Miguel Angel Caballero and actors Luis Antonio Aldana and Sal Lopez. The film […] October 11: National Coming Out Day – 2021 Celebrate National Coming Out Day! Participating in allyship creates a safer and more welcoming environment for your SGM colleagues. Redeem the Lambda Alliance ERG Badge and give an ally a shout out using extra points this week in Bucketlist. Visit the Lambda Alliance website for more ideas. Lab Leads Transgender-inclusive Name Change Initiative – October 2021 In a sea change for scientific publishing, a project led by Berkeley Lab, in partnership with other leading institutions, has paved the way for researchers who change their names to retain recognition of their previously published work. The first-of-its-kind initiative launched this summer with all 17 national labs on board and 21 prominent publishing organizations, […] Pride Committee Recognized in Physics Society The American Physical Society Division of Plasma Physics Pride Committee is the first affinity group within APS focused on supporting the LGBT+ community and is working towards a scientific community supportive of scientists in the gender and sexual orientation minority communities. Read more. Lab Leads Transgender-Inclusive Name-Change Partnership Berkeley Lab is coordinating a partnership among the 17 national laboratories and prominent academic publishers to support name change requests from researchers on past published papers, allowing researchers of all genders to own their academic work. Audio: The Name Change Initiative and the Power in a Name Â Listen as two Berkeley Lab leaders and a transgender scientist share their firsthand experience with the difficulties of a name change in academia as they discuss the Name Change Initiative, which focuses on making it easier for researchers to reclaim past work with their preferred name. Fighting for trans rights â through research Anti-trans legislation is taking aim at issues as diverse as sports, bathroom use, gender-affirming health care, and even the ability to obtain goods and services. And while the intense backlash on trans rights appears new, the fight for LGBTQ equality is not. Legal experts at UCLAâs Williams Institute are fighting back through data.Â Learn how it’s […] Bucketlist Redemption: Meet Tom Goatant Members of the Lambda Alliance secretly gathered enough Bucketlist points to award Tom Gallant, former Lambda Alliance ERG co-chair, a goat named in his honor. Dubbed ‘Tom Goatant’, Tom Gallant got to meet his namesake in person and also received a award marking the occasion. Tom was nominated for his years of work on behalf […] More Easily Add and Manage Your Pronouns in Zoom In Zoom’s new 5.7.0 version, there is now an option to add and manage your personal pronouns. “Pronouns are an essential piece to many of our diverse users expressing themselves and respectfully referring to others. Some common examples of pronouns are he/him/his, she/her/hers, and they/them/theirs. While pronoun sharing can be particularly important to LGBTQ community […] Decades of Pride and Lambda Alliance Banner Design Overview The raising of the rainbow-colored flag in celebration of Pride Month started at Berkeley Lab over 20 years ago. This year however, Lambda Alliance – the Labâs Employee Resource Group and Activities Association that supports Sexual-orientation and Gender Minorities (SGMs) – opted to do something a little different to mark the beginning of Pride Month. […]
### https://diversity.lbl.gov/tag/lgbtq/page/2/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://diversity.lbl.gov/tag/lgbtq/page/2/)DOE Takes Pride in Progress During Pride Month, the U.S. Department of Energy talked to our colleagues about what Pride Month means to them, how they celebrate Pride Month, and what’s on the horizon for our agency when it comes to diversity, equity, and inclusion. Watch the video below to hear their thoughts. Read the full article>> Lab Raises the Progress Pride Flag – June 2021 This June, for the first time in the Department of Energy’s (DOE) history, pride flags were raised at headquarters in Washington, DC and Germantown, MD. In a fitting moment of solidarity and allyship, the Lab also raised the Progress Pride Flag, the same one flown by DOE, high upon the flagpoles outside of Building 65. […] Pride Banner Raising Virtual Ceremony – 2021 During this year’s banner-raising virtual ceremony, Chief Diversity Officer Lady Idos noted: “This year’s theme for San Francisco Pride is ‘All in this Together.’ Given all of the challenges that we’ve been through in the past year, as a nation and a global community, the theme of unity and solidarity is appropriate. ‘All in this […] Understanding the Past and Present: Pride Flag and Banner The Pride banner at the Lab has a long history, going back to 1999 and the start of the Lambda Alliance at the Lab. Several times the banner was removed by unknown persons, but when that happened, Lab leadership stepped up. Lambda Alliance first formed in October 2013 as an employee resource group (ERG) to […] Government Agencies recognize LGBTQ+ employees during Pride Month Government Executive (Buble) reported that since Pride Month started on Tuesday, “many federal agencies have been taking the opportunity to recognize their LGBTQ+ employees and share how they are advancing equity in their respective missions.” According to the article, Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm tweeted on Wednesday that for “the first time ever the department […] Lambda Banner Raising Heralds Beginning of Pride Month The Lambda Alliance Banner was raised on June 1 at Blackberry Gate, heralding the beginning of Pride Month. Hear from Lady Idos, Berkeley Lab’s Chief Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Officer, about this year’s theme “All In This Together.” Lambda Alliance presents Pride events 2021 Dear Lambda Alliance members, allies, and enthusiasts, Next week marks the start of Pride, a month in which we celebrate Sexual orientation & Gender Minority (SGM) culture at home and in the workplace! Fostering unity is a big part of any Pride month and this year SF Pride’s theme is “All in this together”. So […] Remember Harvey Milk Day – movie screening May 21, 2021 Start your weekend early (or listen-in whilst you finish up for the week!) with the movie: Milk. The 2008 American biographical film is based on the life of gay rights activist and politician Harvey Milk, who was the first openly gay person to be elected to public office in California, as a member of the […] May 24 is Pan Awareness Day Pansexual and Panromantic Awareness & Visibility Day, or Pan Awareness Day, is dedicated to celebrating the pansexual and panromantic community. Consider taking a moment to learn about the usage of the term pansexual and its rising popularity. Lambda Alliance Poster Session – June 3, 2021 This virtual poster session is intended as an educational experience for both presenters and attendees, as well as a celebration of Pride. The event will be hosted and organized by Berkeley Lab Lambda Alliance Employee Resource Group (ERG) and will be focused on experiences of the Sexual-orientation and Gender Minority (SGM) community and other minorities […]
### https://diversity.lbl.gov/tag/lgbtq/page/3/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://diversity.lbl.gov/tag/lgbtq/page/3/)Director’s Award Still Resonates for Amanda Krieger Amanda Krieger was recognized in 2017 with the Director’s Award in Diversity for her work on LGBTQ inclusion at the Lab, including making the Lab a welcoming workplace for all communities and raising awareness of the Lab’s progress in diversity and inclusion. Read what the award has meant to her. Read the full story>> Celebrate Transgender Day of Visibilty 2021 The Lambda Alliance celebrate on March 31 with a coffee break dedicated to celebrating transgender people in science and society. They shared a variety of resources: UN Free & Equal: Being a trans ally is easier than you think: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o_-jJQkgKwE&ab_channel=UNHumanRights Gallup poll from 2020: https://news.gallup.com/poll/329708/lgbt-identification-rises-latest-estimate.aspx Human Rights Campaign TDOV 2020: https://youtu.be/R89qcL0HXeE TED talk: “A short […] Lambda hosts coffee hours, a game night and a craft hour in December The Lambda Alliance has four great events planned for December. We hope you can join us! Coffee Break # 1: December 3rd (2:00-3:00 pm) How was your November? Drop by and tell us all about it 🙂 https://lbnl.zoom.us/j/92218852438?pwd=M25BVE5YVkIxVXZSbEpGUmZ4WHBXUT09 Game night! December 10th (6:00-7:30 pm) Join us on Boardgame Arena to play some of your fave tabletop classics, […] October is LGBTQA+ History Month In honor of LGBTQA+ History Month, the Lambda Alliance has planned a series of fun events. Please join us! LGBT History Month is an annual month-long observance of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender history, and the history of the gay rights and related civil rights movements. It was founded in 1994 by Missouri high-school history […] Intersectionalilty: LGBTQ + People of Color Panel – July 21, 2020 Berkeley Lab employees are invited to an event hosted by Lawrence Livermore Lab’s Employee Resource Groups: Livermore Pride and the African American Body of Laboratory Employees (ABLE) will host a panel discussion with the theme of intersectionality on July 21st, 2020 12-1 pm. We will open Q&A to the audience after the panelists’ introductions and […] Pride Month Closes With Virtual Parade After a month of activities — including talks, craft sessions, movie screenings, and Zoom gatherings — the Lab’s Pride month celebration concluded on June 30 with a parade of hand-crafted floats made by staff from Berkeley Lab, SLAC, and Livermore Lab. Check out the floats and the closing ceremony. FULL STORY & PICTURES>> Q&A with Kelliane Parker, Co-Chair of Berkeley Lab’s Lambda Alliance ERG What inspired you to become the Co-Chair of Berkeley Lab’s Lambda Alliance Employee Resource Group? My main hobby is volunteering for purpose driven activities, both at work and home. When the former co-lead retired, I happily stepped up. What role do ERGs, and in particular the Lambda Alliance, have at Berkeley Lab? ERGs are the […] Pride Month: Virtual Shoebox Float Parade & Flag Lowering Pride is never cancelled; nor is the Pride Parade! Come join the celebration with Berkeley Lab shoebox floats. What is a Shoebox float parade? The origins are unclear, but shoebox parades appear to have started as elementary school projects. With COVID-19 restrictions virtual Pride parade variations with shoebox floats are emerging at universities like UCLA, […] Pride Month: A Conversation with Julia Serano – June 24, 2020 Join the Lambda Alliance for a Pride Month conversation with Julia Serano. Date: Wednesday, June 24, 2020 (add to calendar) Time: 12 noon – 1 pm Zoom: https://lbnl.zoom.us/s/95050563609 Julia Serano is an Oakland, California-based writer, performer, biologist, and activist. She is best known for her 2007 book Whipping Girl: A Transsexual Woman on Sexism and […] Three Questions For Director’s Award Winner Tom Gallant Nominations for this year’s Director’s Award, given to exceptional employees and teams, closes June 30. Last year Tom Gallant received the award for Exceptional Achievement in Diversity. Tom came to the Lab as a temp but is still here 20 years later. Read what receiving the award means to Tom. Full interview>>
### https://diversity.lbl.gov/2016/06/13/lambda-alliance-participated-in-vigil-to-honor-orlando-victims/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://diversity.lbl.gov/2016/06/13/lambda-alliance-participated-in-vigil-to-honor-orlando-victims/)Berkeley Lab’s Lambda Alliance attended a vigil at UC Berkeley on June 13, 2016 to honor the lives lost in the Orlando mass shooting, and to support the LGBTQ community. An estimated 300 people attended the vigil, with flags at the entrance flying at half mast. Several speakers shared personal reflections on the attack, their connection to the community as LGBTQ and/or Latino/a individuals, words of support from allies, and a strong endorsement of policy changes needed nationwide to effectively address gun violence. Speakers included students, staff, faculty, and members of the community, including City of Berkeley Councilmember Kriss Worthington. Click here to view the photos. “I attended the vigil today to grieve for the people killed and hurt in Orlando, and for all of us,” said Environmental Programs Manager Sue Fields from DOE’s Berkeley Site Office (BSO). “I participated to show my support for those who were hurt by this event, including other events where fear motivates violent actions. I appreciated all those who shared their feelings and thoughts, and hope that we can make this world a better place.” “I came to be visible, to stand for community in the face of such horrific loss,” said Amanda Krieger, Integrated Circuit Design Engineer from the Engineering Division. “Beyond the pain, the fear, the anger that the LGBT community feels towards this historic tragedy–to be specifically targeted as less human, our lives less valuable, particularly transgender people–beyond this cruel and brutal reality, this was an attack on community itself. At least 49 people of diverse faith, race, and gender assembled for the common purpose of celebration in music, and had their lives taken from them. Taken from their families. Children who will never feel their parents embrace again. Parents who will never hear their children speak, not see their radiant smile, nor feel their kiss–never, never again. I am a parent. How can we accept this, this reality that is so profoundly unacceptable?” For employees who need support, we invite you to take advantage of our Employee Assistance Program. Be Well at Work – Employee Assistance (formerly known as CARE Services) is our staff employee assistance program providing free, confidential counseling and referral for Lab employees. Employee Assistance University Health Services, Tang Center, Suite 3100 (3rd floor) 2222 Bancroft Way Berkeley, CA 94720-4300 Phone: (510) 643-7754 Email: employeeassistance@berkeley.edu Lambda Alliance, Berkeley Lab’s LGBTQ employee association, has a list of events throughout the month of June to celebrate Pride Month. We will have a moment of silence at these events to honor the victims, including some remarks from the Lambda Alliance Executive Sponsor, Jay Keasling, at the Pride Networking Event on Thursday, June 23rd. All employees, including allies, are welcome to attend and support the LGBTQ community at the Lab. For more information, please contact Lady Idos at lvidos@lbl.gov or x 4232. To view Lab Director Michael Witherell’s statement on the Orlando shooting, click here. Photos by Kelly Owen
### https://diversity.lbl.gov/2019/06/12/los-alamos-lab-flying-lgbtq-flag-for-first-time/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://diversity.lbl.gov/2019/06/12/los-alamos-lab-flying-lgbtq-flag-for-first-time/)On Monday, a rainbow flag was raised for the first time in front of the Otowi Building on the Los Alamos National Laboratory campus, flapping alongside the U.S. and New Mexico banners. Lab officials said it will fly for the remainder of the week. It was another sign of change at the lab, which in previous years has undertaken different pride representations, including decorating the windows of a prominent building with rainbow-colored Post-it Notes in 2017. CJ Bacino, the laboratory’s diversity officer, said a Los Alamos lab LGBTQ staff and allies group called Prism brought forward the idea of raising the flag this year to help mark Pride Week in Los Alamos County. LANL and Sandia National Laboratories in Albuquerque both are affiliated with National Lab Pride, an organization founded in 2016 with roughly 80 members representing 14 of the Department of Energy’s 17 national laboratories. Tom Gallant, a program manager at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory in California, said National Lab Pride was formed to foster a better sense of belonging, as well as information sharing, among the Department of Energy’s lab workforce. And Bacino said LANL “has a pretty robust diversity and inclusion strategy in place,” including recruiting, retaining and creating a positive work environment for a variety of groups, including the LGBTQ population.
## [lambda.lbl.gov](lambda.lbl.gov): ~7 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://lambda.lbl.gov/celebrations-observances


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://lambda.lbl.gov/celebrations-observances)celebrations & observances January International Holocaust Remembrance Day (January 27) The United Nations General Assembly designated January 27—the anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz-Birkenau—as International Holocaust Remembrance Day. On this annual day of commemoration, the UN urges every member state to honor the six million Jewish, 1 million Romani, 250,000 mentally and physically disabled people, and 9,000 homosexual men killed in the Holocaust by the Nazi regime and its collaborators. The UN also urges the development of educational programs to help prevent future genocides. Source: https://www.ushmm.org/remember/international-holocaust-remembrance-day February National Black HIV/AIDS Awareness Day (February 7) February 7 is National HIV/AIDS Awareness Day (NBHAAD), which was first observed in 1999. This observance is a day to acknowledge how HIV disproportionately affects Black people. Black communities have made great progress in reducing HIV. Yet racism, discrimination, and mistrust in the health care system may affect whether Black people seek or receive HIV prevention services. These issues may also reduce the likelihood of engaging in HIV treatment and care. NBHAAD is an opportunity to increase HIV education, testing, community involvement, and treatment among Black communities. Aromantic Spectrum Awareness Week (Mid-February) Aromantic Spectrum Awareness Week (ASAW) is a week meant to spread awareness and acceptance of aromantic spectrum identities and the issues they face, as well as a chance for the community to celebrate their own experiences and existence. ASAW generally occurs the first full week (starting Sunday) following Valentine’s Day; it began in large part as a way for those in the aromantic community who had difficulty finding space for their experiences in such a universally romanticized event to come together and celebrate their own unique experiences. March Bisexual Health Awareness Month Bisexual+ Health Awareness Month, led annually by the Bisexual Resource Center (BRC), raises awareness about the bisexual+ (bi, pansexual, fluid, queer, etc.) community’s social, economic, and health disparities; advocates for resources; and inspires actions to improve bi+ people’s well-being. Source: https://bihealthmonth.org/ Zero Discrimination Day (March 1) Zero Discrimination Day is a celebration of the right of everyone to live a full and productive life-- and live it with dignity. It highlights how people can become informed about and promote inclusion, compassion, peace and, above all, a movement for change. It was first celebrated in 2014 by UNAIDS, which is a UN program that highlights how the decriminalisation of key populations and people living with HIV saves lives and helps advance the end of the AIDS pandemic. National LGBT Health Awareness Week (Late March) National LGBTQ Awareness Week is intended to help the healthcare community advocate for reducing barriers to LGBTQ persons by creating and maintaining safe, inclusive and welcoming environments—and ensuring quality, accessible and non-discriminatory health care. This is especially important due to the recent introduction of new anti-LGBTQ legislation across the country. International Transgender Day of Visibility (March 31) International Transgender Day of Visibility is an annual holiday occurring on March 31 dedicated to celebrating transgender people and raising awareness of discrimination faced by transgender people worldwide. The holiday was founded by Michigan-based transgender activist Rachel Crandall in 2009 as a reaction to the lack of LGBTQIA+ holidays celebrating transgender people, citing the frustration that the only well-known transgender-centered holiday was the Transgender Day of Remembrance which mourned the loss of transgender people to hate crimes, but did not acknowledge and celebrate living members of the transgender community. Source: https://www.cod.edu/student_life/resources/lgbtq/awareness.aspx April Day of Silence (April 23) The Day of Silence is the Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network's (GLSEN) annual day of action to protest the bullying and harassment of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBTQIA+) students and their supporters. Students take a day-long vow of silence to symbolically represent the silencing of LGBTQIA+ students and their supporters. The Day of Silence was first organized in 1996 by a group of students at the University of Virginia. In 2001, the Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network (GLSEN) became the official organizational sponsor with new funding, staff and volunteers. Although GLSEN supports students’ efforts to organize Day of Silence activities in their schools, DOS is still very much a student-led event. Source: https://gsafewi.org/resources/frequently-asked-questions-about-day-of-silence/ Lesbian Visibility Week (Late April) Lesbian Visibility Week aims to show solidarity with all LGBTQI women and non-binary people, as well as celebrate lesbians. Lesbian Visibility Week is about using your voice for unity and lifting up all women, especially those who come from marginalized communities. May International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia, and Biphobia (May 17) The International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia was created in 2004 to draw the attention to the violence and discrimination experienced by lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex people and all other people with diverse sexual orientations, gender identities or expressions, and sex characteristics. The date of May 17th was specifically chosen to commemorate the World Health Organization’s decision in 1990 to declassify homosexuality as a mental disorder. The Day represents a major global annual landmark to draw the attention of decision makers, the media, the public, corporations, opinion leaders, local authorities, etc. to the alarming situation faced by people with diverse sexual orientations, gender identities or expressions, and sex characteristics. Source: https://may17.org/about/ Agender Pride Day (May 19) To be agender means to not identify as any particular gender. The agender identity falls under the nonbinary umbrella and (sometimes) the transgender umbrella. This day is to celebrate all those who are agender and what it means to them. Source: https://www.grlgbtqhealthcareconsortium.org/significantdates/agender-pride-day Harvey Milk Day (May 22) Harvey Milk was an activist, organizer, and the first openly gay man elected to public office in the country as a member of the San Francisco Board of Supervisors in the late 1970s. Milk organized against discrimination of gay and lesbian business owners in the city, fought against discrimination in schools, and was responsible for gay rights ordinances in San Francisco before he was assassinated on November 27, 1978. Harvey Milk Day is celebrated every year on his birthday, May 22nd. Pansexual and Panromantic Awareness Day (May 24) May 24 marks Pansexual Visibility Day — a day for to uplift, elevate and celebrate those who identify as pansexual. Pansexual people can often have their identity be erased by people not taking their identity seriously, and/or assuming they are either gay or straight. This is why it's essential to make sure that we uplift the voices of pan people. Some people use pansexual as the sole term to describe their sexuality, while others use pan in addition to other words. It is also often considered part of the overall bisexual+ community and can be used alongside a number of other terms in this family such as “bi,” “queer” or “fluid.” Source: https://www.hrc.org/news/hrc-staff-celebrate-pansexual-visibility-day-2020 June Pride Month! (All of June) Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer (LGBTQ) Pride Month is currently celebrated each year in the month of June to honor the 1969 Stonewall Uprising in Manhattan. The Stonewall Uprising was a tipping point for the Gay Liberation Movement in the United States. Today, celebrations include pride parades, picnics, parties, workshops, symposia and concerts, and LGBTQ Pride Month events attract millions of participants around the world. The purpose of the commemorative month is to recognize the impact that lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender individuals have had on history locally, nationally, and internationally. The first Pride march in New York City was held on June 28, 1970, on the one-year anniversary of the Stonewall Uprising. This was meant to give the community a chance to gather together to "...commemorate the Christopher Street Uprisings of last summer in which thousands of homosexuals went to the streets to demonstrate against centuries of abuse ... from government hostility to employment and housing discrimination, Mafia control of Gay bars, and anti-Homosexual laws". By all estimates, there were three to five thousand marchers at the inaugural Pride in New York City, and today marchers in New York City number in the millions. Since 1970, LGBTQ+ people have continued to gather together in June to march with Pride and demonstrate for equal rights. HIV Long-Term Survivors Awareness Day (June 5) First observed in 2014, HIV Long-Term Survivors Day is a day to honor long-term survivors of HIV and raise awareness about their needs, issues, and journeys. Today, HIV Long-Term Survivors (HLTS) represent a diverse group of people diagnosed with HIV before the advent of Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy or HAART in 1996. They make up about 25% of all people living with HIV and AIDS. The selection of June 5 for this annual observance coincides with the anniversary of the first official reporting of what became known as the AIDS epidemic on June 5, 1981. When the CDC first reported on five cases of a mysterious disease affecting young gay men. June 5, 1981 is considered the start of the AIDS pandemic. Source: https://www.hiv.gov/events/awareness-days/hiv-long-term-survivors-day/ Pulse Night of Remembrance (June 12) On June 12, 2016, the Pulse nightclub in Orlando, Florida was holding its annual Latin Night – a weekly celebration of Latin music and culture. The event was attended by hundreds of Hispanic and Latinx people and their friends, predominantly members of the LGBTQ+ community. At about 2 am, there were still more than 300 people inside Pulse, enjoying the music and drinks. Over the next several hours, the shooter killed 49 people and wounded more than 50 others. The Pulse shooting is still the most significant single act of violence against the LGBTQ+ community in the US. And, as the community moves forward and heals from this tragedy, the Pulse Night of Remembrance gives us space to grieve and honor those who are no longer with us. Source: https://www.sfgmc.org/blog/pulse-night-of-remembrance Stonewall Uprising Anniversary (June 27) The Stonewall Uprising started on June 28th and took place over six days at the Stonewall Inn in New York City. Stonewall Inn was one of the most popular gay bars in New York City. Throughout the state, same-sex relationships were criminal, resulting in many gay bars operating outside the law, being owned by the mafia, and running without a liquor license. It was this combination of factors that led to frequent raids on gay bars throughout New York City. Stonewall was raided roughly once a month leading up to the uprising. Many people consider Stonewall to be a major turning point for LGBTQ+ rights in the United States. It cannot be argued however, that the Stonewall Uprising directly led to the first Pride Parade, which took place on the one year anniversary of the Uprising in 1970. While the events of Stonewall are often referred to as "riots," Stonewall veterans have explicitly stated that they prefer the term Stonewall uprising or rebellion. The reference to these events as riots was initially used by police to justify their use of force. July Non-Binary People's Day & Non-Binary Awareness Week (July 14 and the Week of July 14) July 14 is Non-Binary People's Day, a day recognized around the world as an occasion to celebrate non-binary people and the rich diversity of the community. The term "non-binary" refers to someone who does not does not exclusively identify as a man or a woman. While many cultures may reinforce the notion that gender exists as a strict binary, non-binary people show that knowing one's self and identity is a powerful thing that no one can strip away. The week surrounding July 14th is Non-Binary Awareness Week, celebrated to shining a light on non-binary people and the unique issues that they face. Source: https://www.hrc.org/news/celebrating-the-diversity-of-the-non-binary-community-for-international-non International Drag Day (July 16) International Drag Day, observed annually on July 16th, is a vibrant celebration dedicated to honoring the artistry of drag performance. During the 1960s and 1970s, drag culture underwent a profound transformation, propelled by the rise of LGBTQ+ rights movements and the historical events of the Stonewall Riots. Drag queens emerged as prominent figures during this era, actively engaging in protests and embodying symbols of resilience and defiance. Their visibility became a powerful testament to the fight for equality and the pursuit of social change. Today, International Drag Day celebrates the artistry, creativity, and cultural impact of drag. It embraces the distinct expressions of drag kings and drags queens, challenging societal norms and fostering inclusivity. September Bisexual Awareness Week & Bisexuality+ Day (September 16-22, September 23) Bisexual Awareness week is a week that seeks to accelerate acceptance of the bi+ community. Those that fall under the bisexual umbrella include, but are not limited to bisexuals, pansexuals, omnisexuals, polysexuals, people with fluid sexualities, those that have no label, and those that identify as queer. Bisexual people face discrimination from both straight communities and from within the LGBTQ+ community, making them much less likely to come out. Bi Week draws attention to the experiences, while also celebrating the resiliency of, the bisexual+ community. October LGBTQ+ History Month (All October) Each year, the history of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender people are celebrated in October. This month was chosen in particular to coincide with existing traditions in October, such as National Coming Out Day on October 11th. Source: https://www.library.cmu.edu/about/news/2020-10/lgbt-history-month International Lesbian Day (October 8) International Lesbian Day is a day for lesbians all over the world to come together to celebrate lesbian history, diversity, and culture. The day gives an opportunity for lesbians to connect, celebrate, and also raise awareness about specific issues that the community face. In recent years, lesbians have encouraged the community to get together and show support by donating to charities supporting lesbian causes. Source: https://www.lgbtiqhealth.org.au/international_lesbian_day2 National Coming Out Day is an annual celebration that has taken place every year since 1988. It was first celebrated as the anniversary of the 1987 National March on Washington for Lesbian and Gay Rights in honor of the LGBTQ+ individuals who decided to come out and live openly on that day. Coming out is a unique experience for each LGBTQ+ person. Many individuals have to come out several different times: to co-workers, to classmates, to their family, to their friends, etc. For some, coming out is not a big deal. For others, it is a huge challenge. The fear of discrimination, bullying and judgement is very real and something that a lot of people deal with. Talking about coming out and sharing our stories can help to strengthen the community and provide people with the support they need to come out and live as their true selves. Source: https://www.stonewall.org.uk/about-us/news/why-do-we-need-national-coming-out-day International Pronouns Day (Third Wednesday in October) International Pronouns Day seeks to make asking, sharing, and respecting personal pronouns commonplace. Referring to people by the pronouns they determine for themselves is basic to human dignity, but many transgender and gender-nonconforming people are regularly called by the wrong pronouns, which fuels marginalization, invisibility, and violence. Calling someone by their pronouns positively impacts people's mental health, shows that you are trustworthy, and can even lead to reduced suicide rates. International Pronouns Day seeks to take one small yet important step to build awareness and action about the protective and positive outcomes of using pronouns that individuals determine for themselves Source: https://www.advocate.com/commentary/2018/10/17/why-we-created-international-pronouns-day Spirit Day (Third Thursday in October) Spirit Day is the world's most visible anti-bullying movement. This day encourages LGBTQ+ youth, especially trans and non-binary youth, to live their lives in their truth and authenticity. On this day, people wear purple in order to show their support for LGBTQ youth. With the anti-LGBTQ backlash that is growing, America's youth are now are particularly at risk and are in much need of support. Spirit Day gives LGBTQ youth, their parents and allies an opportunity to see what’s possible when we lead with acceptance. Source: https://glaad.org/spiritday/ Intersex Awareness Day (October 26) Intersex Awareness Day was created via a grassroots effort in 2003 and 2004 to raise awareness around the Intersex community. It was started to give a very small community a sense of belonging and a way to share their story with people who were interested in hearing about it. The date was picked to honor October 26, 1996, when intersex activists demonstrated outside the American Academy of Pediatrics' annual conference. Intersex Awareness Day is an international day of grass-roots action to end shame, secrecy and unwanted genital cosmetic surgeries on intersex children. Source: https://intersexday.org/en/origin-intersex-awareness-day/ Ace Week (Last full week of October) Ace Week is an annual event that puts asexuality in the spotlight. It's part celebration of the progress that has been made, and part campaign of increasing the understanding and acceptance of ace-spectrum identities. While the ace community has gained a lot of acceptance and visibility over the years, there is still a lot to be done. Ace identities are often overlooked or misunderstood, causing barriers to equality and acceptance. In spite of this, aces all over the world participate in Ace Week by creating educational resources, sharing information on social media, and organizing community events. These global initiatives serve to raise awareness, spread information, and spark discussion about ace identities. More and more people discover ace communities each year, and with them, find acceptance, comfort, and joy. Ace refers to all identities that fit under the asexual spectrum. November Trans Parent Day (First Sunday in November) First established in 2009, Trans Parent Day is celebrated every year on the first Sunday in November as a day to celebrate life and the love between transgender parents and their children and transgender children and their parents. Intersex Day of Remembrance & Solidarity Day (November 8) Intersex Day of Remembrance is a day that focuses on the difficult topics surrounding intersex people, such as genital mutilation, the drawbacks of a rigid binary gender system, and sexism within that system. It emphasizes advancing intersex human rights. November 8th was chosen as it was the birthday of Herculine Barbin, a French intersex person who lived from 1838 to 1868, whose memoir and life made them an icon of intersex history. The two week period between Intersex Day of Awareness and Intersex Day of Remembrance are considered a time to pay particular focus towards intersex issues. Source: https://www.therainbowstores.com/blogs/blogs-guides/intersex-awareness-day-and-intersex-day-of-remembrance Transgender Awareness Week (November 13-19) Transgender Day of Remembrance (November 20) Transgender Awareness Week is the week leading up to Transgender Day of Remembrance (TDOR) and is a week to educate about transgender and gender non-conforming people, and the issues associated with their transition and/or identity. TDOR is a day to memorialize all those who have been killed as a result of transphobia and related hatred/fear of those who act outside of traditional gender norms. It also acts to bring attention to the continued violence endured by the transgender community. Source: https://www.cod.edu/student_life/resources/lgbtq/awareness.aspx December World AlDS Day (December 1) World AIDS Day is a global movement to unite people in the fight against HIV and AIDS. Since 1988, communities have stood together on World AIDS Day to show strength and solidarity against HIV stigma and to remember lives lost. Medical advances mean that many of those with HIV can expect to live a long and happy life. However, HIV continues to be highly stigmatized and misunderstood. This day exists to shine a light on the experiences of those living with HIV and celebrates the resilience and diversity of those communities that are most affected. Source: https://worldaidsday.org/about/