



# [militaryonesource.mil](militaryonesource.mil): ~3 pages censored since 1/20/25

## https://www.militaryonesource.mil/relationships/support-community/lgbtq-in-the-military/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.militaryonesource.mil/relationships/support-community/lgbtq-in-the-military/)- - MilLife Topics - Military Basics - Deployment - Transitioning & Retiring - Casualty Assistance - Moving & PCS - Housing & Living - Recreation, Travel & Shopping - Relationships - Parenting - Special Needs - Health & Wellness - Safety From Violence & Abuse - Financial & Legal - Education & Employment - I am a… - Benefits & Resources - Benefits - Back to Menu - View Benefits Finder - View Benefits Finder - Moving - Military OneSource Services - Planning & Prevention - Discounts & Perks - Pay & Leave - Education & Employment - Recreation - Family & Child Care - Relationships - Health Care & Emotional Well-being - Retirement - Assistance Programs - Housing - Shopping - Legal - Travel - Popular Benefits - MilTax - Space-A Travel - DOD MWR Libraries - Resources - Back to Menu - View Resources Finder - View Resources Finder - MilLife Guides - Military OneSource Network Websites - Podcasts - Government Websites - Webinars - External Websites - Directories & Tools - Online Learning - Mobile Apps - Popular Resources - MilitaryINSTALLATIONS - Plan My Move - Moving Personal Property - DPS Login - Other Resources - Data, Research & Statistics - Products - Back to Menu - View Products Finder - View Products Finder - Popular Product Types - Book/Booklets - Fact Sheets - Brochures - Flyers - Educational Items - Posters - Popular Products - Personal Property Claims Fact Sheet - School Liaison Flyer - Non-medical Counseling Flyer - Creating Calm Relaxation Techniques for Kids Book - ABCs of Safe Sleep - Confidential Help - Non-medical Counseling - Specialty Consultations - Interactive Tools & Services 24/7/365 Access to Support No matter where you serve or live, free and confidential help is available. - In Crisis? - Veterans/Military Crisis Line - Back to Menu - Veterans/Military Crisis Line - PhoneLive ChatInternationalWebsite Dial 988 then press 1 or text 838255 - National Domestic Violence Hotline - Back to Menu - National Domestic Violence Hotline - PhoneLive ChatText Call 800-799-SAFE (7233) Text “START” to 88788 - DOD Safe Helpline - Sexual Assault Support - Back to Menu - DOD Safe Helpline - Sexual Assault Support - PhoneLive ChatWebsite Call 877-995-5247 - 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline - Back to Menu - 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline - PhoneLive ChatTTY Call 988 Use your preferred relay service, or dial 711 then 988 - Domestic Abuse Victim Advocate Locator - Family Advocacy Program - Back to Menu - Domestic Abuse Victim Advocate Locator - Family Advocacy Program - Interactive Tool In the United States, call 911 if you are in an emergency. For those outside the United States, call your local emergency number. - 800-342-9647 - Call Us OCONUS - Call Us TTY/TDD - Live Chat - About Us - Browse By Program/Office - Casualty & Mortuary Affairs - Child & Youth Advocacy - Child & Youth Programs - Commissary, Military Exchange & Lodging - Family Advocacy Program - Military Community Support Programs - Military & Family Life Counseling - Military Family Readiness Programs - Military Funeral Honors - Morale, Welfare & Recreation (MWR) - Office of Special Needs - Personnel Accountability & Evacuations Operations - Spouse Education & Career Opportunities ARTICLE - - Contact Military OneSource Information and support for service members and their families. About the Call Center. - 800-342-9647 - Call Us OCONUS - Call Us TTY/TDD - Additional Ways to Contact Us LGBTQ in the Military: A Brief History, Current Policies and Safety4 minute read • July 17, 2024 Since 2011, openly gay, lesbian and bisexual men and women have been permitted to serve in the military. Acceptance for LGBTQ in the military expanded with the lifting of the transgender ban in 2021. Still, some LGBTQ service members may worry about living openly. They may fear being harassed or passed over for assignments or promotions. While acceptance of LGBTQ service members is a relatively new development in the military’s long history, the Defense Department is committed to maintaining a strong force that reflects the nation’s diversity. The history of LGBTQ in the military It wasn’t until 1982 that the military enacted a policy explicitly banning gay men and lesbian women from their ranks. Before that, however, same-sex relations were criminalized and cause for discharge. And in the early 1940s, it was classified as a mental illness, disqualifying gay men and lesbian women from service. In 1993, the “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell” policy went into effect allowing closeted LGBTQ people to serve in the military. Under the policy, service members would not be asked about their sexual orientation, but would be discharged for disclosing it. Eighteen years later, Congress repealed the policy, allowing openly gay, lesbian and bisexual people to serve in the military. Another barrier was lifted in 2013 when spousal and family benefits were extended to same-sex married partners in the military. After ending temporarily in 2016, the ban on transgender individuals was again rescinded in 2021, allowing those who don’t identify with their biological gender to enlist and serve in the armed forces. Being LGBTQ in the military The DOD recognizes the value of a diverse force that represents society, and has taken steps to promote acceptance and inclusion in its ranks. But, given the military’s 245-year history, its policy to accept LGBTQ service members into its ranks is still relatively new. Cultural changes take time; stigma against LGBTQ service members may linger. This can be a barrier to living openly as an LGBTQ person in the military. If this is true of your service member, talk with them about their concerns. The fear of backlash to living openly is understandable, but keeping a key part of their identity secret can affect their physical and mental health. You can play an important role by being a sounding board for your service member. You can help your service member feel understood and supported just by listening. If your LGBTQ service member feels unsafe If your service member is harassed or threatened, they should document the incident in writing and through photographs, if appropriate. They should also retain any evidence, such as a threatening note, then bring a formal complaint to their chain of command or the military police. If your service member feels they were passed up for a promotion or denied an assignment because of their sexual orientation or gender identity, they may file a complaint with their service branch’s military equal opportunity office. If your service member feels isolated, they may find it helpful to build a support network of fellow LGBTQ service members. Their installation may have an LGBTQ support group. If not, your service member may find one in the community outside the installation. Your service member may also benefit from talking with a professional who is familiar with the military culture. Free, confidential non-medical counseling is available through their installation’s Military and Family Life Counseling program and Military OneSource. Your service member can connect with a counselor by calling 800-342-9647. If they are outside the continental United States, they may use one of these calling options. If your service member is in crisis, the Military Crisis Line is staffed 24/7 with trained counselors. You or your service member can reach the Military Crisis Line at 988. Press 1 to speak with a responder, text 838255 or access online chat at the Military Crisis Line website. Learn about military bases worldwide. Get installation overviews, check-in procedures, housing, neighborhood information, contacts for programs and services, photos and more.Release 5.24.18a
## https://www.militaryonesource.mil/relationships/support-community/lgbtq-in-the-military/?utm_campaign=friends-family-enews-june-2023&utm_content=html&utm_medium=email&utm_source=govdelivery


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.militaryonesource.mil/relationships/support-community/lgbtq-in-the-military/?utm_campaign=friends-family-enews-june-2023&utm_content=html&utm_medium=email&utm_source=govdelivery)- MilLife Topics Military Basics - Deployment - Transitioning & Retiring - Casualty Assistance - Moving & PCS - Housing & Living - Recreation, Travel & Shopping - Relationships - Parenting - Special Needs - Health & Wellness - Safety From Violence & Abuse - Financial & Legal - Education & Employment - I am a… - Benefits & Resources - BenefitsBack to Menu - View Benefits Finder - View Benefits Finder - Moving - Military OneSource Services - Planning & Prevention - Discounts & Perks - Pay & Leave - Education & Employment - Recreation - Family & Child Care - Relationships - Health Care & Emotional Well-being - Retirement - Assistance Programs - Housing - Shopping - Legal - Travel - Popular Benefits - MilTax - Space-A Travel - DOD MWR Libraries - - ResourcesBack to Menu - View Resources Finder - View Resources Finder - MilLife Guides - Military OneSource Network Websites - Podcasts - Government Websites - Webinars - External Websites - Directories & Tools - Online Learning - Mobile Apps - Popular Resources - MilitaryINSTALLATIONS - Plan My Move - Moving Personal Property - DPS Login - Other Resources - Data, Research & Statistics - - ProductsBack to Menu - View Products Finder - View Products Finder - Popular Product Types - Books and Booklets - Fact Sheets - Brochures and Cards - Flyers - Educational Items - Posters and Banners - Popular Products - A Survivor's Guide to Benefits - Chill Drills 2 â Releasing Stress - Confidential Non-medical Counseling Fact Sheet - Domestic Violence Reporting Options Poster - - Confidential Help - Non-medical Counseling - Specialty Consultations - Interactive Tools & Services - 24/7/365 Access to Support No matter where you serve or live, free and confidential help is available. In Crisis? - Veterans/Military Crisis LineBack to Menu - Veterans/Military Crisis Line - PhoneLive ChatInternationalWebsiteDial 988 then press 1 or text 838255 - - National Domestic Violence HotlineBack to Menu - National Domestic Violence Hotline - PhoneLive ChatTextCall 800-799-SAFE (7233) Text “START” to 88788 - - DOD Safe Helpline - Sexual Assault SupportBack to Menu - DOD Safe Helpline - Sexual Assault Support - PhoneLive ChatWebsiteCall 877-995-5247 - - 988 Suicide & Crisis LifelineBack to Menu - 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline - PhoneLive ChatTTYCall 988 Use your preferred relay service, or dial 711 then 988 - - Domestic Abuse Victim Advocate Locator - Family Advocacy ProgramBack to Menu - Domestic Abuse Victim Advocate Locator - Family Advocacy Program - Interactive Tool - - In the United States, call 911 if you are in an emergency. For those outside the United States, call your local emergency number. 800-342-9647 - Call Us OCONUS - Call Us TTY/TDD - Live Chat - About Us - Browse By Program/Office - Casualty & Mortuary Affairs - Child & Youth Advocacy - Child & Youth Programs - Commissary, Military Exchange & Lodging - Family Advocacy Program - Military Community Support Programs - Military & Family Life Counseling - Military Family Readiness Programs - Military Funeral Honors - Morale, Welfare & Recreation (MWR) - Office of Special Needs - Personnel Accountability & Evacuations Operations - Spouse Education & Career Opportunities - - Contact Military OneSource Information and support for service members and their families. About the Call Center. - 800-342-9647 - Call Us OCONUS - Call Us TTY/TDD - Additional Ways to Contact Us - ARTICLELGBTQ in the Military: A Brief History, Current Policies and Safety 4 minute read • July 17, 2024Since 2011, openly gay, lesbian and bisexual men and women have been permitted to serve in the military. Acceptance for LGBTQ in the military expanded with the lifting of the transgender ban in 2021. Still, some LGBTQ service members may worry about living openly. They may fear being harassed or passed over for assignments or promotions. While acceptance of LGBTQ service members is a relatively new development in the militaryâs long history, the Defense Department is committed to maintaining a strong force that reflects the nationâs diversity. The history of LGBTQ in the military It wasnât until 1982 that the military enacted a policy explicitly banning gay men and lesbian women from their ranks. Before that, however, same-sex relations were criminalized and cause for discharge. And in the early 1940s, it was classified as a mental illness, disqualifying gay men and lesbian women from service. In 1993, the âDonât Ask, Donât Tellâ policy went into effect allowing closeted LGBTQ people to serve in the military. Under the policy, service members would not be asked about their sexual orientation, but would be discharged for disclosing it. Eighteen years later, Congress repealed the policy, allowing openly gay, lesbian and bisexual people to serve in the military. Another barrier was lifted in 2013 when spousal and family benefits were extended to same-sex married partners in the military. After ending temporarily in 2016, the ban on transgender individuals was again rescinded in 2021, allowing those who donât identify with their biological gender to enlist and serve in the armed forces. Being LGBTQ in the military The DOD recognizes the value of a diverse force that represents society, and has taken steps to promote acceptance and inclusion in its ranks. But, given the militaryâs 245-year history, its policy to accept LGBTQ service members into its ranks is still relatively new. Cultural changes take time; stigma against LGBTQ service members may linger. This can be a barrier to living openly as an LGBTQ person in the military. If this is true of your service member, talk with them about their concerns. The fear of backlash to living openly is understandable, but keeping a key part of their identity secret can affect their physical and mental health. You can play an important role by being a sounding board for your service member. You can help your service member feel understood and supported just by listening. If your LGBTQ service member feels unsafe If your service member is harassed or threatened, they should document the incident in writing and through photographs, if appropriate. They should also retain any evidence, such as a threatening note, then bring a formal complaint to their chain of command or the military police. If your service member feels they were passed up for a promotion or denied an assignment because of their sexual orientation or gender identity, they may file a complaint with their service branchâs military equal opportunity office. If your service member feels isolated, they may find it helpful to build a support network of fellow LGBTQ service members. Their installation may have an LGBTQ support group. If not, your service member may find one in the community outside the installation. Your service member may also benefit from talking with a professional who is familiar with the military culture. Free, confidential non-medical counseling is available through their installationâs Military and Family Life Counseling program and Military OneSource. Your service member can connect with a counselor by calling 800-342-9647. If they are outside the continental United States, they may use one of these calling options. If your service member is in crisis, the Military Crisis Line is staffed 24/7 with trained counselors. You or your service member can reach the Military Crisis Line at 988. Press 1 to speak with a responder, text 838255 or access online chat at the Military Crisis Line website. Learn about military bases worldwide. Get installation overviews, check-in procedures, housing, neighborhood information, contacts for programs and services, photos and more. -
## https://www.militaryonesource.mil/financial-legal/legal/legal-and-financial-review-for-lgbtq-service-members/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.militaryonesource.mil/financial-legal/legal/legal-and-financial-review-for-lgbtq-service-members/)- MilLife Topics Military Basics - Deployment - Transitioning & Retiring - Casualty Assistance - Moving & PCS - Housing & Living - Recreation, Travel & Shopping - Relationships - Parenting - Special Needs - Health & Wellness - Safety From Violence & Abuse - Financial & Legal - Education & Employment - I am a… - Benefits & Resources - BenefitsBack to Menu - View Benefits Finder - View Benefits Finder - Moving - Military OneSource Services - Planning & Prevention - Discounts & Perks - Pay & Leave - Education & Employment - Recreation - Family & Child Care - Relationships - Health Care & Emotional Well-being - Retirement - Assistance Programs - Housing - Shopping - Legal - Travel - Popular Benefits - MilTax - Space-A Travel - DOD MWR Libraries - - ResourcesBack to Menu - View Resources Finder - View Resources Finder - MilLife Guides - Military OneSource Network Websites - Podcasts - Government Websites - Webinars - External Websites - Directories & Tools - Online Learning - Mobile Apps - Popular Resources - MilitaryINSTALLATIONS - Plan My Move - Moving Personal Property - DPS Login - Other Resources - Data, Research & Statistics - - ProductsBack to Menu - View Products Finder - View Products Finder - Popular Product Types - Book/Booklets - Fact Sheets - Brochures - Flyers - Educational Items - Posters - Popular Products - Personal Property Claims Fact Sheet - School Liaison Flyer - Non-medical Counseling Flyer - Creating Calm Relaxation Techniques for Kids Book - ABCs of Safe Sleep - - Confidential Help - Non-medical Counseling - Specialty Consultations - Interactive Tools & Services - 24/7/365 Access to Support No matter where you serve or live, free and confidential help is available. In Crisis? - Veterans/Military Crisis LineBack to Menu - Veterans/Military Crisis Line - PhoneLive ChatInternationalWebsiteDial 988 then press 1 or text 838255 - - National Domestic Violence HotlineBack to Menu - National Domestic Violence Hotline - PhoneLive ChatTextCall 800-799-SAFE (7233) Text “START” to 88788 - - DOD Safe Helpline - Sexual Assault SupportBack to Menu - DOD Safe Helpline - Sexual Assault Support - PhoneLive ChatWebsiteCall 877-995-5247 - - 988 Suicide & Crisis LifelineBack to Menu - 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline - PhoneLive ChatTTYCall 988 Use your preferred relay service, or dial 711 then 988 - - Domestic Abuse Victim Advocate Locator - Family Advocacy ProgramBack to Menu - Domestic Abuse Victim Advocate Locator - Family Advocacy Program - Interactive Tool - - In the United States, call 911 if you are in an emergency. For those outside the United States, call your local emergency number. 800-342-9647 - Call Us OCONUS - Call Us TTY/TDD - Live Chat - About Us - Browse By Program/Office - Casualty & Mortuary Affairs - Child & Youth Advocacy - Child & Youth Programs - Commissary, Military Exchange & Lodging - Family Advocacy Program - Military Community Support Programs - Military & Family Life Counseling - Military Family Readiness Programs - Military Funeral Honors - Morale, Welfare & Recreation (MWR) - Office of Special Needs - Personnel Accountability & Evacuations Operations - Spouse Education & Career Opportunities - - Contact Military OneSource Information and support for service members and their families. About the Call Center. - 800-342-9647 - Call Us OCONUS - Call Us TTY/TDD - Additional Ways to Contact Us - ARTICLELegal and Financial Review for LGBTQ Service Members 4 minute read • Aug. 9, 2024We have created the information on this website educate and inform service members and their families on their personal legal affairs. Nothing contained on the website is a substitute for the competent legal advice of a licensed attorney. Service members and their families seeking legal advice should consult the staff of the nearest installation legal assistance office. The LGBTQ community has made great strides in obtaining federal, state and military benefits and protections. Review the following information to make sure you understand the resources and services available to you. Federal legislation The federal government has worked to implement federal benefits for legally married, same-sex couples. Spousal and family benefits for service members and their same-sex spouses — The Defense Department extends benefits such as health care and Basic Allowance for Housing to all married service members, regardless of sexual orientation. - Taxpayer benefits — For information and guidance on IRS regulations, visit the Answers to Frequently Asked Questions for Same-Sex Couples webpage. - Social Security benefits — The Social Security Administration processes spousal and survivor benefits for same-sex married couples. - Immigration — U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services reviews immigration visa petitions filed on behalf of same-sex spouses in the same manner as those filed on behalf of opposite-sex spouses. - Family support program — Defense Department leaders extended access to family support programs and other resources to same-sex couples. - State legislation The Supreme Court legalized same-sex marriage in all 50 states in 2015, but here are a few things to take into consideration: Taxes — Contact a tax professional to find out if you and your partner may file a joint tax return. - Property ownership — If you have property, be sure to familiarize yourself with the joint property ownership rules in your state and how they apply to inheritance and property division in a divorce. - Parental and adoption rights — In many states, both same-sex partners are not automatically considered legal parents when the couple has a child or adopts. - Inheritance rights — Depending on state laws, same-sex couples may not have the same rights of survivorship protection. Without a will, your state may distribute your property according to the state’s rules. - Medical decision-making privileges — Medical personnel may look to immediate family members to make these decisions, so get legal assistance to ensure your choices are covered. - Housing rights — In states that don’t explicitly prohibit it, same-sex couples may face housing discrimination. - Protect your family’s financial future Here are some ways all couples can protect themselves and their families: Know your state and local laws — You will generally have more protections if you are legally married. - Begin financial planning — A visit to your installation’s Personal Financial Management Office is a great place to start. - Create powers of attorney for both partners — A general power of attorney authorizes a person to act on your behalf for most things. A special power of attorney authorizes your designee to act on your behalf in a specific situation. Examples of this include registering a car or getting medical care for your children. - Draft a will — A will is a legally binding document that describes how you want your property distributed after your death. It may also include other matters, such as the appointment of your child’s guardian. - Create a living will — A living will, or advance medical directive, allows you to describe medical treatments you want in case of injury or illness and to identify someone to make medical decisions for you, if you are unable to do so. - Create a My Social Security account — Creating a My Social Security account is a great way to track your and your spouse’s earnings, estimate benefits or handle select other Social Security business. - Title your property jointly — When either partner buys personal property or real estate, title it jointly with rights of survivorship so the surviving partner receives full ownership, should either partner die. - Draft a parenting agreement — For parents who can’t legally share custody of their children, this document helps identify parental rights and responsibilities. - Take advantage of the free legal services available to service members and their dependents. If you or your spouse have questions about estate planning, same sex marriage rights or other personal civil legal matters, you can contact your local military legal assistance office. Learn about military bases worldwide. Get installation overviews, check-in procedures, housing, neighborhood information, contacts for programs and services, photos and more. Release 5.24.18a -