



# [NNLM](nnlm.gov): ~4 pages censored since 1/20/25

## [NNLM News – News blogs across the NNLM Network](news.nnlm.gov): ~4 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://news.nnlm.gov/region_6/category/all-of-us/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://news.nnlm.gov/region_6/category/all-of-us/)You are viewing the post list, filtered by category type. Select a post below for the full content. Jun 28 0 comments Tags: LGBTQ+, lgbtq+ health As we wrap up LGBTQIA+ Pride Month for 2023, we wish you a happy, healthy, and safe Pride all year long. For general LGBTQIA+ information resources, here are some of our favorites: All of Us LGBTQ+ Being an Ally to LGBT People Human Rights Campaign (HRC) Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity Definitions Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and… Read More » Jun 21 0 comments Tags: LGBTQ+, lgbtq+ health Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI) Did you know that the National Institutes of Health (NIH) has an Office of Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI)? The mission of EDI is to “cultivate a culture of inclusion where diverse talent is leveraged to advance health discovery”. During Pride Month 2023, EDI’s theme is “Advancing Equity and Visibility… Read More » Posted in: All of Us, Blog, News from NIH/NLM Jul 07 0 comments Come aboard this traveling educational exhibit to learn how you can help shape the future of health for yourself, your family, your community, and generations to come. The Journey features interactive activities, videos, games, quizzes, and more—all designed to demonstrate the power of your participation in health research and precision medicine. The Journey has several… Read More » Posted in: All of Us, Blog, Consumer Health, Outreach Jan 07 0 comments Health misinformation is a serious threat to public health. It can cause confusion, sow mistrust, harm people’s health, and undermine public health efforts. Limiting the spread of health misinformation is a moral and civic imperative that will require a whole-of-society effort. ~ Vivek H. Murthy, M.D., M.B.A., Vice Admiral, U.S. Public Health Service, Surgeon General… Read More » Posted in: All of Us, Blog, Consumer Health, General, NNLM Reading Club Mar 05 0 comments In partnership with Cornerstones of Science and the NIH All of Us Research Program, the Network of the National Libraries of Medicine (NNLM) is offering an exciting new citizen science resource to public libraries. The Test the Waters Family Exploration Kit is a fun, accessible, loanable kit which includes four family friendly activities, and all the instructions and materials needed (audio… Read More » Posted in: All of Us, Blog, Consumer Health, Outreach, Public Health, Public Libraries, Resource Sharing
### https://news.nnlm.gov/region_6/category/blog/page/4/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://news.nnlm.gov/region_6/category/blog/page/4/)You are viewing the post list, filtered by category type. Select a post below for the full content. Jul 15 0 comments Tags: book discussion, NNLMreads Join us for the NNLM Book Discussion from August 1 â October 31, 2024. We will explore “You Just Need to Lose Weight” And 19 Other Myths About Fat People by Aubrey Gordon. About the Book:Â In âYou Just Need to Lose Weight,â Aubrey Gordon dismantles the pervasive myths about fatness with compelling facts and figures…. Read More » Posted in: Blog Jul 08 0 comments ** The August 27th session has reached capacity. Please fill out the form to be added to the waitlist/priority list for the next session this fall ** NNLM Region 6 will be hosting a virtual Mental Health First Aid Training class on Tuesday August 27 from 9:00a-4:30p EST. There are two parts to the virtual… Read More » Posted in: Blog Jul 05 0 comments Tags: telehealth Greetings! Our library has an amazing resource for everyoneâs access: telehealth availability! The Effingham Public Library (Effingham, IL) received a grant for this option through the National Library of Medicine. The purpose is to allow access for individuals in rural communities that may not have access to good internet, or a private space for their… Read More » Posted in: Blog Jul 02 0 comments Tags: CHIS CE, CHIS level 2 We are excited to announce the addition of three new Consumer Health Information Specialization (CHIS) Level 2 classes! As health information professionals, we understand our crucial role in providing reliable, accessible health information to our communities. CHIS Level 2 certification is designed to enhance your expertise and skills further, empowering you to make a more… Read More » Posted in: Blog, Consumer Health Jun 26 0 comments Tags: LGBTQ+, lgbtq+ health Each one of Region 6âs states has a unique identity. From âThe Land of Lincolnâ (Illinois), to the âland where the water reflects the cloudsâ (Mni Sota Makoce/Minnesota), Region 6 is cities, prairies, farms, dairy land, native history, lakes, rivers, valleys, hills, and more. Each of our states provides health information resources for the LGBTQ+… Read More » Posted in: Blog
### https://news.nnlm.gov/region_6/2023/06/pride-2023-week-4-nih-advancing-equity-and-visibility-for-all/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://news.nnlm.gov/region_6/2023/06/pride-2023-week-4-nih-advancing-equity-and-visibility-for-all/)Jun 21 Posted by Jacqueline Leskovec on June 21st, 2023 Posted in: All of Us, Blog, News from NIH/NLM Tags: LGBTQ+, lgbtq+ health Did you know that the National Institutes of Health (NIH) has an Office of Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI)? The mission of EDI is to “cultivate a culture of inclusion where diverse talent is leveraged to advance health discovery”. During Pride Month 2023, EDI’s theme is “Advancing Equity and Visibility for All”. Learn more about LGBTQ + Pride at the EDI Pride 2023 page. The EDI website has an entire section devoted to Sexual and Gender Minorities (SGM). Provided are SGM Resources, including a list of Executive Orders from President Biden. Also included is an explanation of the Intersex-Inclusive Progress flag, shown in the banner image above, designed by intersex columnist Valentino Vecchietti in 2021. The site also links to other Pride flag variations that represent diverse, intersectional identities. Want to learn more about intersectionality? The Office of Human Services Policy “Advancing Equity by Incorporating Intersectionality in Research and Analysis” is available for download. While perusing the EDI Pride site, venture over to the Communities section for the blog post “Creating Safe Spaces: Why All-Gender Restrooms Are Essential for Health and Well-Being”. You can also follow the EDI Office on LinkedIn and Twitter, and you can watch EDI’s YouTube channel. The All of Us Research Program encourages LGBTQ+ people to participate in research that includes all of us. The All of Us is program of the National Institutes of Health is changing how health research is done. Many groups had been left out of health research. LGBTQ+ populations did not self-identify in programs in part because of the stigma associated with being LGBTQ+. Secondly, until the Electronic Medical Record, patients were not identified as SGM in the patient record and were not required to be. All of Us LGBTQ makes it possible for SGM to be included in medical research. Why join? By joining All of Us, LGBTQ+ people can help ensure your community is included in health studies. These studies could help researchers understand health conditions that are more common among LGBTQ+ people. What they learn could lead to more tailored approaches for preventing and treating those conditions. Happy Pride!
## [NNLM](www.nnlm.gov): ~4 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://www.nnlm.gov/reading-club/topic/268


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.nnlm.gov/reading-club/topic/268)LGBTQIA+ Health Discover Health and Wellness for LGBTQIA+ In recognition of Pride Month, which is celebrated every June in honor of The Stonewall Uprising in 1969, the NNLM Reading Club has selected books to help share information about sexual- and gender-affirming health care. Discover MedlinePlus MedlinePlus is a service of the National Library of Medicine, the largest biomedical library in the world. Use MedlinePlus.gov anywhere, anytime, on any device - for free - to discover high-quality health and wellness information that is reliable, easy to understand, and free of advertising, in both English and Spanish. Discover information on: Discover NIH The National Institutes of Health (NIH), a part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, is the nation’s medical research agency — making important discoveries that improve health and save lives. NIH is made up of 27 Institutes and Centers, each with a specific research agenda, often focusing on particular diseases or body systems. The Sexual & Gender Minority Research Office (SGMRO) coordinates sexual and gender minority (SGM)–related research and activities by working directly with the NIH Institutes, Centers, and Offices. The Office was officially established in September 2015 within the NIH Division of Program Coordination, Planning, and Strategic Initiatives (DPCPSI). Traditionally, health care has taken a one-size-fits-all approach in developing treatments and strategies for the “average” person - but these treatments may not work well for individual people, because everyone is unique. How can medicine and research take individuality into consideration in tailoring treatment and prevention strategies for more effective health care? The All of Us Research Program is working to support Precision Medicine in this way, by building a diverse database that can inform thousands of studies on a variety of conditions. Learn more about Diversity in biomedical research. Want to learn more? Here are other free NLM and NNLM programs. NLM History Talk: “We’re here, we’re queer, get used to it”: Struggles and Stories to Be Heard for Today and Tomorrow Dr. Sell is a professor at the School of Public Health and Department of Community Health and Prevention, Drexel University. Circulating Now interviewed him about his research and upcoming talk. - - Beyond the Binary: Understanding LGBTQIA+ Health | NNLM - Discover More Agencies and Associations The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) works to ensure that LGBTQI+ people, their families, and communities receive equal access to health services by providing enhanced resources for LGBTQI+ health issues; developing better information regarding LGBTQI+ health needs; and working to close the LGBTQI+ health disparities gap that currently exists. Learn more and download and share Gender-Affirming Care and Young People [PDF] (HHS Office of Population Affairs) Healthy People 2030 supports improving the health and well-being for LGBT populations through health behavior objectives, objectives to address systemic problems, and objectives to increase data collection on LGBT heath and well-being. Learn more at Healthy People 2030. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is a comprehensive resource for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Health. The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMSHA) supports behavioral health equity and resources. The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs recognizes that LGBTQ+ Veterans face increased health risks and unique challenges in health care due to stigma, discrimination, and stress. Services that the VA provides for LGBTQ+ Health The National LGBTQIA+ Health Education Center, a program of the Fenway Institute, provides educational programs, resources, and consultation to health care organizations with the goal of optimizing quality, cost-effective health care for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender queer, intersex, asexual and all sexual and gender minority (LGBTQIA+) people. The American Psychological Association (APA) advances the creation, communication, and application of psychological knowledge on gender identity and sexual orientation to benefit society and improve lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender people's lives. See APA Sexual Orientation and Gender Diversity for more information. The Gay and Lesbian Medical Association (GMLA) is a national organization committed to health equity for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer (LGBTQ), and all sexual and gender minority (SGM) individuals and equality for LGBTQ/SGM health professionals in their work and learning environments. Use their resources to: For the Bookshelf ‘This Day in June’ celebrates the pride and diversity of the LGBTQ community from a child’s point of view. This is the first picture book to win the Stonewall Book Awards – Mike Morgan and Larry Romans Children’s and Young Adult Literature Award. This Day in June | Gayle E Pitman, Ph.D. | Magination Press | 2014 | 32 pages | ISBN: 978-1433816598 | WorldCat TRANS+ is a guide for teens who are transgender, non-binary, gender-nonconforming, gender-fluid, queer, or questioning their sexual and gender identity. It answers both easy and hard questions about gender and covers mental health, physical health, reproduction, transitioning, relationships, sex, and life as a queer individual. Trans+: Love, Sex, Romance, and Being You | Karen Rayne Ph.D. and Kathryn Gonzales MBA | Magination Press | 2019 | 304 pages | ISBN: 978-1433829833 | Young Adult Ages 15-18 | WorldCat This book examines the microaggressions that LGBTQ people face on a daily basis, highlights their impact on mental health, and discusses ways mental health providers can help clients process and address microaggressions. Dismantling Everyday Discrimination: Microaggressions Toward LGBTQ People, 2nd ed | Kevin Leo Yabut Nadal Ph.D. | American Psychological Association | 2023 | 329 pages | ISBN: 978-1433840159 | WorldCat This book uses a life course perspective to explore not only the challenges and needs of LGBT older adults, but also their strengths and resilience. The Lives of LGBT Older Adults: Understanding Challenges and Resilience | Nancy A Orel Ph.D. and Christine A Fruhaurf Ph.D. | American Psychological Association | 2015 | 241 pages | ISBN: 978-1433817632 | WorldCat Reports Medical Students Push for More LGBT Health Training to Address Disparities. Rachel D Cohen. NPR Shots. January 20, 2019 - 81 Words: the story of how the American Psychiatric Association decided in 1973 that homosexuality was no longer a mental illness. This American Life. January 18, 2002 "John Paul Spiegel (March 17, 1911 – July 17, 1991) was an American psychiatrist and expert on violence and combat stress and the 103rd President of the American Psychiatric Association (APA). As a closeted gay man, and president-elect of the APA in 1973, he helped to change the definition of homosexuality in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM) which had previously described homosexuality as sexual deviance and that homosexuals were pathological." - Featured Books Title: Brace for ImpactPublisher The Dial PressYear published 2022Book image - Title: How It Feels To FloatPublisher Dial BooksYear published 2019Book image - Title: Kimiko Does CancerPublisher Arsenal Pulp PressYear published 2020Book image - Title: Little & LionPublisher Little, Brown Young ReadersYear published 2017Book image - Title: Mama's BoyPublisher Knopf Doubleday Publishing GroupYear published 2019Book image - Title: The Queer & Transgender Resilience WorkbookPublisher New Harbinger PublicationsYear published 2018Book image - Title: This Is How It Always IsPublisher Flatiron BooksYear published 2017Book image - Terms of use: Network of the National Library of Medicine (NNLM) staff offer these health discussion resources for educational use. The materials included do not necessarily reflect the views or opinions of the author, publisher, or the sponsoring agencies of the National Library of Medicine (NLM) and the National Institutes of Health (NIH).