



# [National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration](noaa.gov): ~4 pages censored since 1/20/25

## [NOAA's National Ocean Service](sanctuaries.noaa.gov): ~4 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://sanctuaries.noaa.gov/news/jun21/pride-in-the-ocean-2021.html


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://sanctuaries.noaa.gov/news/jun21/pride-in-the-ocean-2021.html)NOAA Has #PrideInTheOcean By Rachel Plunkett June 2021 Here at NOAA, we believe that a diverse workforce strengthens our innovation and performance. Join us in celebrating #PrideInTheOcean and the importance of celebrating and striving towards increased diversity in ocean careers. Below you will hear from a few experts from various NOAA offices and partner organizations that work in areas ranging from public outreach to scientific research and resource management. We all come from different backgrounds, but we share passion for our work and have #PrideInTheOcean. #PrideInTheOcean and Pride Outside Our ocean is for everyone! During the month of June, the National Marine Sanctuary System celebrates Ocean Month and LGBTQ+ Pride Month through the #PrideInTheOcean social media campaign. In partnership with Pride Outside, this campaign asks LGBTQ+ community members and allies to post an image of yourself in, on, or by the ocean with a caption explaining why and how you take pride in the ocean! Karen Morrill-McClure (They/Them) - IT, Accessibility and Inclusion Lead, Washington Sea Grant My path to Washington Sea Grant was winding, but one thing was a constant: my love for the ocean. I grew up in Southern California and then Carmel Valley with a mother who learned to scuba dive for fun. I went from swimming in the ocean whenever I could to acting as beach support for my mom when she dove, to scuba diving myself. I love anywhere the land touches water with a special place in my heart for tidepools and the creatures that live in them. Professionally, I started out as an engineer working in the Space Shuttle program then became a web programmer in the early days of the World Wide Web. I switched to teaching before I washed up at Washington Sea Grant as their all-around IT person and webmaster. My experience as a queer person in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) led me to view my IT work through an equity lens, which led to the opportunity to co-chair the Washington Sea Grant Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Workgroup. I’m now the co-lead of the DEI Development Circle, where we make space for all staff to learn, share, and teach. The ocean has always been that thing bigger than me that I turn to when I need comfort or healing or joy. I feel honored to work for and with other people who care for it as much as I do. Adam Roser (He/Him) - Meteorologist, National Weather Service I have always loved the weather and the water! Growing up in Northeast Ohio brought a lot of fun trips exploring what Lake Erie had to offer. I started my NOAA career by volunteering at the National Weather Service (NWS) offices in Charleston, West Virginia, and Bismarck, North Dakota. As a full-time meteorologist at NWS San Diego, I feel a connection with the ocean and those who enjoy it's pristine features across Southern California. I have pride in the ocean by how I am able to provide weather forecasts and preparedness information to workers and the public. It is not only a place of pride at work, but also in daily life, where we are able to find peace in the ocean's beauty. Robyn Walters (She/Her) - Program Assistant Volunteer/Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale NMS Aloha mai. I'm Dr. Robyn Walters, an 84 year-old transgender volunteer (she/her) with Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary, and 2014 National Volunteer of the Year. Working with a diverse group of talented staff and volunteers, I am happiest when sharing with the public both science-based knowledge about our sea life and NOAA's involvement in protecting our ocean home for future generations. Kenneth Walker (He/Him) - NOAA Pride Employee Resource Group Chair I’m Kenneth Walker and I have #PrideInTheOcean. As Chair of NOAA Pride, an Employee Resource Group formed in 2019 to focus on the needs of the LGBTQ+ community and its allies, I lead NOAA’s efforts to recruit, retain, and advance members of the LGBTQ+ community. I work for the NOS Office for Coastal Management, and manage a portfolio of community resilience tools, case studies, and trainings available via NOAA’s Digital Coast. While in my 20’s, I circumnavigated the North Atlantic while serving as first mate and cook on a 59-foot sailboat. Along the way, I visited many coastal communities – some well-planned, but most not, which piqued my interest in city planning and coastal management. After pursuing a bachelors and master’s degree in city planning, I started with NOAA in 1994. I enjoy developing NOAA products and services that are used by local planners and decision-makers to help make their coastal communities more resilient to hazards and climate change. Laura Scott (She/Her) - Supervisor - Travel Department, NOAA Finance Office I joined the NOAA Finance Office in July of 2010. At the time of the interview, we lived in Indiana and my girlfriend was being transferred to Maryland. I could have done a phone interview, but I chose to do it in person. The main reason was to get a feel of the environment and see if they were “gay friendly.” I figured I would know pretty quickly in the interview as they would ask me why I was moving (which they did). I told them my significant other was transferring with her job, and did not receive one look of surprise or hesitation. I already knew I wanted to work for NOAA, as I love their mission, however I would not have worked for them if there had been any indication in the interview that I would not be welcome. I was offered the position one month later and have moved forward ever since. I am currently a member of the NOAA Pride Employee Resource Group! Allen Tom (He/Him) - Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale NMS Superintendent Aloha, my name is Allen Tom, and I am the superintendent of Hawaiian Islands Humpback Whale National Marine Sanctuary. I am so proud to work to protect our marine ocean environment for future generations to enjoy and cherish. I was a graduate student at the University of Hawai'i at Manoa, when I first learned about NOAA. I had some vague idea about what NOAA was (they do weather, right?), but it was not until I went to work at the Hawai'i Sea Grant program as an extension agent that I would come to understand the full magnitude of what NOAA has to offer. Many of my fellow graduate students applied for a variety of NOAA fellowships including the NOAA Hollings Fellowship program and the Nancy Foster Scholarship program. It would not be for another decade before NOAA and I would find each other again, but in that time I had the great fortune to work in the Hawai'i State Legislature, Bishop Museum, Hanauma Bay (to name a few). These different experiences not only prepared me for my current job as a superintendent, but helped me understand different ways of looking and dealing with issues. As a sanctuary superintendent, I am equally proud to have hired and to have supported staff and volunteers of all nationalities, religious beliefs, sexual orientations, and gender identities. I am so fortunate that being out has never been an issue for me either in my community or at NOAA. Terms and Definitions Diversity is the mixture of the unique attributes that shape an individual’s identity which they bring into the workplace to help NOAA accomplish its goals. Diversity refers to demographic diversity (e.g., race, gender, sexual orientation), experiential diversity (e.g., affinities, hobbies, and abilities), and cognitive diversity (e.g., sensory processing and problem solving). NOAA embraces individuals of all ages, races, ethnicities, national origins, gender identities, sexual orientations, abilities, cultures, religions, citizenship statuses, marital statuses, education levels, job classifications, veteran status, income, and socioeconomic statuses. Inclusion is a culture that values the unique attributes of all team members. It is an environment which is respectful, collaborative, supportive, and one that allows for equal access. Inclusion requires active and intentional engagement on the part of everyone and provides a feeling of belonging. NOAA is committed to building inclusive programs that are shaped by and serve people with unique backgrounds, needs, and perspectives. Rachel Plunkett is the writer/editor for NOAA's Office of National Marine Sanctuaries. LGBTQ Inclusion Outdoors Training On Wednesday June 16th at 1:00 p.m. EDT, we are partnering with Pride Outside to host a #PrideInTheOcean LGBTQ+ Inclusion Outdoors training. Hannah Malvin, the founder and director of Pride Outside and Co-founder of the LGBTQ Outdoor Summit, will share about how to boost relevancy and inclusion for the LGBTQ+ community outdoors. She will outline barriers to access, identify strategies to build inclusion into programming and outreach, highlight successful initiatives developing connections between the LGBTQ+ community and the outdoors, and share lessons learned from LGBTQ+ community building. Contact us at earthisblue@noaa.gov with any questions.
### https://sanctuaries.noaa.gov/magazine/5/pride-in-the-ocean/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://sanctuaries.noaa.gov/magazine/5/pride-in-the-ocean/)Home 				Get Into the Blue 				Pride in the Ocean                             Pride in the Ocean                          Our ocean is for everyone! During the month of June, the National Marine Sanctuary System celebrates Ocean Month and LGBTQ Pride Month through #PrideInTheOcean. In collaboration with Pride Outside, this social media campaign asks LGBTQ community members to share an image of themselves with a caption of why and how they take pride in the ocean. Here are a few of the participants.
## [NOAA's National Ocean Service](oceanservice.noaa.gov): ~4 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://oceanservice.noaa.gov/aaweekly/archive/061721.html


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://oceanservice.noaa.gov/aaweekly/archive/061721.html)Celebrate the Ocean Join us to celebrate and learn about our world ocean during National Ocean Month. From June 20-30, get ready to test your ocean knowledge! In honor of Pride Month, I asked Kenneth Walker from the NOAA Pride Employee Resource Group (ERG) to write a guest post this week. Before I turn the pen over to Kenneth, I wanted to talk about the Pride Month observance program that took place on Tuesday, June 15. As the executive sponsor for the NOAA Pride ERG, I had the pleasure of acting as master of ceremonies for this event. In my opening remarks, I talked about recent executive orders and other actions the administration has taken to strengthen protections and advance equity for LGTBQ+ individuals. I also discussed the new NOAA Policy on Gender Identity Protections, which advances NOAA’s goal to provide a workplace that is free from discrimination and fully inclusive of all employees. This event was one of the special emphasis programs provided by NOAA’s Office of Inclusion and Civil Rights. I encourage you to keep an eye on their calendar for additional events and ERG meetings. — Nicole Greetings Colleagues: Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer or Questioning (LGBTQ+) Pride Month is a time to highlight LGBTQ+ culture, celebrate the contributions of LGBTQ+ individuals, and educate others on LGBTQ+ issues. Pride is celebrated during June to commemorate the anniversary of the 1969 Stonewall riots. Although great progress has been made, Pride celebrations bring awareness to the work that remains to be done. We remain subject to discrimination based on who we are or who we love. Being visible sometimes means being exposed to harassment, discrimination, and violence. This is particularly true for transgender people who intersect with other underrepresented communities. In the White House’s June Proclamation on LGBTQ Pride Month, 2021, President Biden said he “will not rest until full equality for LGBTQ+ Americans is finally achieved and codified into law.” As chair of the NOAA Pride ERG, I have met members of the community and their allies across the agency. It’s a diverse and talented group, and it’s given me an appreciation for all the “letters'' in LGBTQ+. What defines this incredibly diverse community is not so much a shared single identity, but a shared struggle for acceptance and equality. This year, we have seen an executive order directing federal agencies to prohibit discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity, another order advancing the human rights of LGBTQ+ persons worldwide, and a reversal of the ban on transgender service members. Equity and inclusion require creating an environment that recognizes and affirms people’s unique identities and fosters a sense of belonging. NOAA Pride is working to make sure the LGBTQ+ community, in all its diversity, has recruitment, retention, and advancement opportunities at NOAA. Allies are an important part of NOAA Pride, and you do not have to be a member of the LGTBQ+ community to participate. To keep up-to-date on NOAA Pride activities, visit our website and join the mailing list. For more information, contact me at kenneth.walker@noaa.gov. Steady as we go, Kenneth Walker Program Analyst Office for Coastal Management ONMS has released new wildlife viewing guidelines in English and Spanish. These simple guidelines for activities along the shore and on the water were designed in coordination with NOAA Fisheries, the Respect Wildlife campaign, the Recreate Responsibly coalition, and multiple state and federal wildlife agencies. The goal of the guidelines is to engage and educate the public on how to have an enjoyable adventure while reducing the chance of human/wildlife conflicts. Responsible recreation at national marine sanctuaries can help create awareness and promote stewardship. ONMS is encouraging the public to show their support for wildlife, and inspire others to do the same, by taking the “Wildlife Pledge.” Contact: Grace.Bottitta@noaa.gov NGS presented a technical briefing to the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), describing NGS’s interest in linking state-of-the-art atomic clocks over continental distances. By creating a linked network of field-portable clocks and measuring the tiny differences in their tick rates, NGS would be able to continuously monitor real-time changes in geoid height at the 1-cm level. The presentation was part of an interagency working group formed as part of a national strategy to promote quantum information science, which combines the study of information science with quantum effects in physics. By leveraging similar, aligned interests in federal agencies, the working group is working to foster the development and application of novel quantum sensors. Contact: Derek.Vanwestrum@noaa.gov The Department of Justice entered two consent decrees valued at $9.3 million for settlement with parties responsible for hazardous waste pollution in western Port Angeles Harbor in Washington. This announcement follows the lodging of these two consent decrees in March 2021 and a public comment period. Since the early 1900s, pulp and paper mills and other industrial facilities discharged effluents into Port Angeles Harbor. These discharges have resulted in harbor sediments contaminated by heavy metals, dioxins, PCBs, and petrochemicals. These finalized settlements will be used to fund projects that restore natural resources injured by hazardous waste pollution. NOAA worked in partnership with its natural resource co-trustees, the Lower Elwha Klallam Tribe, Jamestown S’Klallam Tribe, Port Gamble S’Klallam Tribe, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, and the Washington State Department of Ecology to reach this agreement and develop restoration plans. Contact: Robert.Neely@noaa.gov CO-OPS installed 10 seasonal water level gauges in the Great Lakes that will operate from June to September in support of the International Great Lakes Datum (IGLD) update. IGLD is a common reference system used to measure water level heights throughout the Great Lakes, connecting waterways, and the St. Lawrence River System. IGLD is updated every 25-30 years. These temporary gauges will supplement the 53 permanent U.S. stations currently operating throughout the Great Lakes. Funding for these stations came from the Great Lakes Restoration Initiative. Contact: Laura.Rear.Mclaughlin@noaa.gov The nation’s marine economy grew by 4.2% from 2018 to 2019 and supported 2.4 million jobs in 2019 — these statistics are an example of the new data available from NOAA and the Bureau of Economic Analysis. These Marine Economy Satellite Account statistics detail the economic contributions of marine-dependent businesses. They offer national estimates for ocean, coastal, and Great Lakes-related economic activity by industry, and they measure the marine economy as a percentage of the nation’s gross domestic product and total output. This is valuable information for investors and decision-makers in marine and environmental industries. Contact: Kate.Quigley@noaa.gov NCCOS collaborated with the National University of Ireland, Galway and Ireland’s Marine Institute to successfully adapt an NCCOS-employed method to monitor for harmful algal blooms (HABs) in Irish waters. The method, called the Red Band Difference algorithm, analyzes satellite imagery for the relative fluorescence of algae. It can detect blooms in surface shelf waters and help monitor their movement. The algorithm was tested in Irish waters for the first time in summer 2019, and the study was recently published in Frontiers in Marine Science. This pilot study shows great potential to use the Red Band Difference algorithm to support the existing Irish HAB alert system, improving detection and helping to mitigate HABs that threaten Irish aquaculture. Contact: Michelle.Tomlinson@noaa.gov Kenneth Walker Program Analyst Office for Coastal Management Brought to you by the NOS Communications and Education Division
## [National Centers for Environmental Information (NCEI)](www.ncei.noaa.gov): ~4 pages censored since 1/20/25

### https://www.ncei.noaa.gov/news/records-riots-and-rights


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.ncei.noaa.gov/news/records-riots-and-rights)High-temperature records from the start of the Stonewall Uprising in defense of LGBTQ+ rights during June 28–July 3, 1969 still stand in the New York City area The Stonewall Uprising is generally known as a series of riots that demanded a stop to persecution of members of the LGBTQ+ community, as well as the beginning of a larger-scale movement in support of LGBTQ+ rights, and a predecessor of the June “Pride” celebrations we see today. Until the first uprising began in late June of 1969 at the Stonewall Inn in Greenwich Village in New York City, it was common for law enforcement to conduct raids on gay bars and nightclubs and arrest patrons. In the hot, steamy early morning hours of June 28, 1969, in protest of rough treatment and violence toward clientele during a raid, Stonewall patrons and members of the surrounding neighborhood resisted law enforcement and began a series of protests and resistance actions that would last six days. As it turns out, the Stonewall Uprising was not the only historical event that occurred on June 28, 1969. On the first day of the uprising, recollected by many as being dominated by oppressive heat and humidity, record-high temperatures were set across many locations in New York City, including some that still stand to this day. Oppressive Heat in New York City The day the Stonewall riots began, temperatures rose rapidly across the Eastern U.S. Despite a generally cooler-than-normal June, a strong high pressure system moved over the Southeast, setting record temperatures there during the last week of June 1969. The strong high persisted and amplified over the East Coast, eventually resulting in record-breaking heat in much of the Northeast, including many sites in New York City, in the final few days of June. The heat peaked in the area on June 28, the same day of the initial raid of the Stonewall Inn and the start of the Stonewall Uprising. Central Park The daily record high temperature of 96°F was set in Central Park on June 28, 1969, one of the closest observation sites to the Stonewall Inn, which is on Christopher Street in Greenwich Village. That record was later tied in 1991, but 1969 remains tied for hottest June 28 on record in Central Park to this day. NCEI maintains the physical paper daily weather log for June 28, 1969 in its archive, and the Central Park data record extends back to 1869. N.Y. Ave V Brooklyn Another location in NYC to the south of the Stonewall Inn site in Brooklyn, N.Y. Ave V, also hit a record daily high temperature on June 28, 1969, as documented in the monthly weather log that also remains in NCEI’s archive. That record was tied in 1991, but not exceeded. LaGuardia LaGuardia Airport (LGA) was the closest airport site to the Stonewall Inn, and hit its second-highest daily maximum temperature (at the time) for June 28 in 1969. The daily weather log for LGA, also found in NCEI’s archive, shows that the maximum daily temperature of 94 on June 28, 1969 is now tied for the fifth-hottest daily maximum temperature for June 28, remaining squarely in the top-10 hottest rankings for the date at LGA. Rights and Records June 28, 1969 is known as the day temperatures and tensions reached a breaking point, both environmentally and in the fight for LGBTQ+ rights. The Stonewall Uprising lives on as a beacon that memorializes the broadening of what we today know as the “Pride” movement that would eventually lead to the decriminalization of “same-sex actions” and a quick proliferation of groups supporting LGBTQ+ rights across the U.S. Recently, in acknowledgment of the significance of the Uprising, the Department of the Interior designated the site of the Stonewall Inn on Christopher Street as a National Monument on June 24, 2016. In the words of Marsha P. Johnson, a Black transgender woman, leader of the uprising at Stonewall and fierce advocate for gay, lesbian, and transgender rights, “History isn’t something you look back at and say it was inevitable. It happens because people make decisions that are sometimes very impulsive and of the moment, but those moments are cumulative realities.”