



# [National Veterans’ Training Institute](nvti.org): ~1 pages censored since 1/20/25

## https://www.nvti.org/on-demand-learning/podcasts/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.nvti.org/on-demand-learning/podcasts/)Podcasts Episode 26 Annual AJC Highlights: 2024 Date Recorded: September 11, 2024 See more Host: Hannah Toney Guests: Jo Ann Enwall, Sam Mitchell, Jamie Norton, Shane Sawyer, and James Stout Description: In this episode of the NVTI podcast series, we speak with the recipients of the 2024 Mark Sanders Award, which honors exceptional career centers serving veterans. Members of the IowaWORKS Davenport and Washington’s WorkSource Joint Base Lewis-McChord (JBLM) teams discuss the exceptional programs which resulted in their selection for this award. Image: Source: Getty Images Episode 25 Recognizing and Addressing Gender-Based Violence in the Veteran Community Date Recorded: July 23, 2024 See more Host: Hannah Toney Guests: Dr. LeAnn Bruce, Dr. Katherine Iverson, Tovah Kasdin, Dr. Jennifer Knetig Description: In this episode of the NVTI podcast series, our guests explore the critical issue of gender-based violence and its profound impact on veterans. This episode examines the various aspects of gender-based violence, offering valuable insights into how it may affect those who have served. The panel experts also provide essential tools and resources to support survivors and equip veteran service providers with the knowledge they need to assist those impacted by gender-based violence. This podcast is accompanied by the Recognizing and Addressing Gender-Based Violence in the Veteran Community Resource Guide. Image: Source: Getty Images Episode 24 Serving Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Veterans Date Recorded: April 25 & May 1, 2024 See more Host: Hannah Toney Guests: Danielle Ngo, Ramon Ruiz, Ron Sagudan, Jeanette Yih Harvie Description: In this episode of the NVTI podcast series, our guests will share valuable insights, knowledge, and resources to help veteran service providers effectively support Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Veterans. This podcast is accompanied by the Serving Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Veterans Resource Guide. Image: Source: Getty Images Episode 23 Continuing Conversations: Serving Justice-Involved Veterans Date Recorded: April 29 & 30, 2024 See more Host: Hannah Toney Guests: Sean Clark, Scott Tirocchi, Professor Eleanor Morales Description: In this episode of the NVTI podcast series, Continuing Conversations: Serving Justice-Involved Veterans, our guests discuss unique challenges faced by justice-involved veterans, including access to benefits and services. Our guests will also discuss best practices and resources to support justice-involved veterans. This podcast is accompanied by the NVTI Continuing Conversations Serving Justice-Involved Veterans Resource Guide. Image: Source: Getty Images Episode 22 Continuing Conversations: Serving Women Veterans Date Recorded: February 22, 2024 See more Host: Hannah Toney Guests: Leah Carpio-Hernandez, Lourdes Tiglao, and Deborah Walker Description: In this episode of the NVTI podcast series, Continuing Conversations: Serving Women Veterans, our guests discuss the unique challenges women veterans face when entering or re-entering the civilian workforce including pay equity, caregiving and family responsibilities, and translating their military skills to civilian roles. Our guests offer suggestions and resources to assist women veterans in overcoming these challenges to obtain employment. This podcast is accompanied by the NVTI Continuing Conversations Serving Women Veterans Resource Guide. Image: Source: Getty Images Episode 21 2023 Mark Sanders Award Winner Date Recorded: August 23 & August 24, 2023 See more Host: Hannah Toney Guests: Donal Cieutat, Robert Wilson and Sam Mitchell Description: In this episode of the NVTI podcast series, the guests will discuss the 2023 National Association of State Workforce Agencies’ Mark Sanders Award, which was presented to the Opelika Career Center in Alabama for exceptional service to veterans. They will describe the various partnerships and programs that allow them to assist veterans, especially those with significant barriers to employment, in securing jobs and careers. Image: Source: Getty Images Episode 20 Promoting Registered Apprenticeship to Attract Veteran Talent Date Recorded: September 8, September 12 & September 15, 2023 See more Host: Hannah Toney Guests: Carolyn Renick, Joe Dan Banker, Nicholas Morgan and Katie Adams Description: In this episode of the NVTI podcast series, our guests will discuss how apprenticeships are an important part of the veteran employment process. The discussion will include benefits of apprenticeships for veterans and employers, the process of participating in apprenticeships, and other important information related to Registered Apprenticeship programs. Image: Source: Getty Images Episode 19 Why Hire Veterans? Conversations with HIRE Vets Medallion Award Recipients Date Recorded: August 21 & August 23, 2023 See more Host: Hannah Toney Guests: Jerry Flores, Marty Estrada, Leo Deon, Gerry Cruz, Nadine Rodriguez, Justin Spencer and Tracy Thibodeaux Description: In this episode of the NVTI podcast series, our guests will introduce veteran service providers and employers to the HIRE Vets Medallion Program and discuss the benefits to both veterans and businesses when they hire veterans. Image: Source: Getty Images Episode 18 Serving Veterans Experiencing Homelessness Date Recorded: August 18 & September 13, 2023 See more Host: Hannah Toney Guests: Karen Land, Jonathan Narcisse, Jennifer Steigerwald, Rashida Williams, Savannah Wood and Zella Richards Description: In this episode of the NVTI podcast series, our guests will define the criteria used to identify veterans experiencing homelessness. In addition, they will introduce a wide variety of programs and resources that will aid veteran service providers in serving veterans experiencing homelessness. This podcast is accompanied by the Serving Veterans Experiencing Homelessness Resource Guide Image: Source: Getty Images Episode 17 Serving Veterans with Substance Use Disorders Date Recorded: August 16 & August 24, 2023 See more Host: Hannah Toney Guests: Fred Volpe, Marlon Burton, Darrick Cunningham, Dr. Holly Geyer, and Nancy Ise Description: In this episode of the NVTI podcast series, Serving Veterans with Substance Use disorders, the guests will provide veteran service providers with knowledge and resources to enable them to work successfully with veterans with substance use disorders. This podcast is accompanied by the Serving Veterans with Substance Use Disorders Resource Guide Image: Source: Getty Images Episode 16 Continuing Conversations: Serving LGBTQ+ Veterans Date Recorded: May 5, 2023 See more Host: Hannah Toney Guests: Sarah Chung, Jody Davis, and Heather Sperry Description: In this episode of the NVTI podcast series, Continuing Conversations: Serving LGBTQ+ Veterans, guests provide a discussion of the resources available to LGBTQ+ veterans and offer insight into why some LGBTQ+ veterans may not seek out services or be fully aware of the services available to them. Participants share their experiences working with and/or being LGBTQ+ veterans and overview some of the unique needs of LGBTQ+ veterans and ideas on how to connect them with resources and support. Image: Source: Getty Images Episode 15 Addressing Burnout and Secondary Trauma for Veteran Service Providers Date Recorded: May 2, 2023 See more Host: Hannah Toney Guests: Brian Bride, Latoya Henderson, and Stacey Owens Description: In this episode of the NVTI podcast series, Addressing Burnout and Secondary Trauma for Veteran Service Providers, guests will define and discuss burnout and secondary trauma and how they may impact veteran service providers. This material will serve as a resource to veteran service providers and provide guidance on how to recognize and address burnout and secondary trauma they, or their peers, may experience when working with their veteran clients. This podcast is accompanied by the Addressing Burnout and Secondary Trauma for Veteran Service Providers Resource Guide. Image: Source: Getty Images Episode 14 Serving Veteran Spouses Date Recorded: August 19 & August 25, 2022 See more Host: Hannah Toney Guests: Nathalie Grogan, Mallory Huerta, Pam Langley, and Marcus Lane Description: In this episode of the NVTI Podcast Series, our guests discuss how to best serve veteran spouses. The panel defines what it means to be a veteran spouse, discusses common misconceptions about veteran spouses, explores the unique employment issues faced by veteran spouses, and much more. This podcast is accompanied by this Serving Veteran Spouses Podcast Resource Guide Image: Source: Getty Images Episode 13 Supporting Veterans with Accessibility Needs Date Recorded: August 10 & August 18, 2022 See more Host: Hannah Toney Guests: Nikita Floore, Nuno Medeiros, and Micah Foster Description: In this episode of the NVTI Podcast Series, our guests discuss how to successfully support veterans with accessibility needs. The panel defines accessibility, provides advice to service providers and employers to create an inclusive environment, discusses the importance of cultural competence, and much more. This podcast is accompanied by this Supporting Veterans with Accessibility Needs Podcast Resource Guide Image: Source: Getty Images Episode 12 DVOP/CVSO: Promising Practices to Connect and Serve Date Recorded: August 15, 2022 See more Host: Hannah Toney Guests: Mike Farmer, Nathalie Grogan, and Zach Migura Description: In this episode of the NVTI Podcast Series, our guests discuss how Disabled Veterans’ Outreach Program (DVOP) specialists and other veteran service providers can best collaborate with County Veterans Services Officers (CVSOs). The panel explains the role of a CVSO, the ways veterans find and secure CVSO services, how CVSOs and DVOP specialists can work together to serve veterans, and much more. Image: Source: Getty Images Episode 11 Serving Justice-Involved Veterans Date Recorded: June 24 & July 8, 2022 See more Host: Hannah Toney Guests: Jennifer Carter, Jose Sandoval, and Joseph Swyrtek Description: In this episode of the NVTI Podcast Series, our guests discuss best practices, common misconceptions, and important factors to consider when assisting these justice-involved veterans in finding appropriate services and employment. They discuss the Justice-Involved Veterans Network (JIVN), Veterans Trial Court (VTC), and the Veterans Justice Outreach (VJO) and how these programs can assist veterans. They also talk about the support they provide to justice-involved veterans while incarcerated to help to reduce the risk of recidivism. We cover these topics and more in this NVTI podcast. Image: Source: Getty Images Episode 10 Supporting Entrepreneurship in Veterans: Helping Veterans Start Businesses Date Recorded: July 5, 2022 See more Host: Hannah Toney Guests: Stanley Kurtz, Laura Wages, and Billy Wright Description: In this episode of the NVTI Podcast Series, our guests discuss the services available from the US Small Business Administration (SBA), Office of Veterans Business Development (OVBD) and share success stories. They discuss the first step they recommend to a veteran interested in starting a business and the programs that support veterans along the path of entrepreneurship. They cover the role of Veteran Business Outreach Centers (VBOCs), and program including Boots to Business, Boots to Business Reboot, SCORE, and several other programs and services that can be critical to veterans’ success. A resource guide with helpful links has been provided to complement the podcast. Listen to this NVTI podcast to learn more about how you might help the veterans you serve along this exciting journey to business ownership. Image: Source: Getty Images Episode 9 Serving Women Veterans Date Recorded: May 19 & 20, 2022. See more Host: Hannah Toney Guests: Heather Deters. Melissa Washington. Nancy Glowacki. Nona Mallicoat Description: In this episode of the NVTI Podcast Series, four veteran women share their personal journeys along with advice for veteran service providers. Those spotlighted include Heather Deters, a recent retiree from the Army who continues to serve her fellow veterans as one of five Home Base Iowa Career Planners; Melissa Washington, a Navy veteran, now serving as CEO and founder of the Women Veterans Alliance; Nancy Glowacki, an Army veteran who currently works at the Department of Labor’s Veterans’ Employment and Training Service (DOL-VETS) with her focus on women veterans; and Nona Mallicoat, a Marine Corps veteran who is the Deputy Director of the Employment Connections Division of the Washington State Employment Security Department. Image: Source: Getty Images Episode 8 Strengthening America’s Trucking Workforce Date Recorded: February 24, 2022. See more Guests: James Rodriguez and Jesus Davila. Description: On this episode of the NVTI Podcast Series, James Rodriguez, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Department of Labor VETS talks with Jesus Davila about the trucking industry as a viable and welcoming career option for veterans. Mr. Rodriguez and Mr. Davila discuss their time serving as Marines and the transferability of the skills honed during service to the trucking industry. In support of the Administration’s Trucking Action Plan to Strengthen America’s Trucking Workforce, DOL VETS worked with Federal Partners and the White House to create a list of federal resources for transitioning service members and veterans pursuing careers in the trucking industry. You can read DOL’s Fact Sheet and find other employment resources at https://www.dol.gov/agencies/vets. You may also want to read the FACT SHEET: The Biden Administration’s Unprecedented Actions to Expand and Improve Trucking Jobs. Image: Source: Getty Images Episode 7 Effective Collaboration Between Jobs for Veterans State Grants (JVSG) Staff and Homeless Veterans’ Reintegration Program (HVRP) Grantees Date Recorded: September 08, 2021. See more Host: Hannah Toney Guests: Karen Frias, Sheryl Gillum, Chris Mills, Brian Ottlinger. Description: On this episode of the NVTI Podcast Series, learn about the collaborative efforts of JVSG staff and HVRP grantees that have helped veterans experiencing homelessness access resources and find employment, best practices for working with veterans with significant barriers to employment, and about innovative veteran outreach techniques that have been employed in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Image: Source: Getty Images Episode 6 Serving Native American Veterans Date Recorded: September 08, 2021. See more Host: Hannah Toney Guests: JP McCoy, Paul Pelot, Archie Barrow Description: On this episode of the NVTI Podcast Series, learn about Native American veterans and various tribal communities. Guests share their own personal accounts of working with Native American veterans and offer some resources, best practices, and other critical information to help service providers. Episode 5 Serving LGBTQ+ Veterans Date Recorded: July 23, 2021. See more Host: Dan Griffiths Guests: Bradley Aune, Nathaniel Boehme, Matthew Freeman, Joanna Michaels Description: On this episode of the NVTI Podcast Series, learn about the unique challenges that LGBTQ+ veterans face as members of both the LGBTQ+ community and military. Guests share their insight and some resources to better support LGBTQ+ veterans. Episode 4 LVER Staff Skills Date Recorded: April 12, 2021. See more Host: Greg Davis Guests: Randall Coon, Michael James, Edward Dupass, and Raymond Clay Description: On this episode of the NVTI Podcast Series, learn about the function LVERs serve as well as the skills and tools they need. Guests discuss their experiences establishing connections with local businesses and forging mutually beneficial relationships that create opportunities for veterans. Continue the conversation on this podcast at the Making Careers Happen for Veterans: Community of Practice. Episode 3 DOL VETS Leadership Date Recorded: March 29, 2021. See more Host: Greg Davis Guests: James D. Rodriguez Description: On this episode of the NVTI Podcast Series, learn about the future of VETS, including the HVRP and JVSG program. A special guest highlights their leadership role and exciting new initiatives underway at VETS. If you have questions for DOL VETS, visit the Making Careers Happen for Veterans: Community of Practice and post under the topic !! Ask a Fed !! Episode 2 DVOP Specialist Skills Date Recorded: February 8, 2021. See more Host: Greg Davis Guests: Timothy Rockefeller, Paul Cortez, Joe Henle, Brent Camery Description: On this episode of the NVTI Podcast Series, learn about the essential skills that DVOP Specialists need to better serve veterans. Guests discuss their experiences serving veterans and share opportunities and resources to further develop these skills. Episode 1 Serving Rural Veterans Date Recorded: December 4, 2020. See more Host: Dan Griffiths Guests: Katie Baillio, Eileen Boylston, Brandon Harting, Danny Wyatt Description: On this episode of the NVTI Podcast Series, learn about the unique challenges facing rural veterans in the job market. Guests discuss their experiences serving rural veterans and share opportunities and resources to better support them. Continue the conversation on this podcast at the Making Careers Happen for Veterans: Community of Practice.