



# [OVC TTAC
	
     - ](ovcttac.gov): ~9 pages censored since 1/20/25

## https://www.ovcttac.gov/taskforceguide/eguide/4-supporting-victims/45-victim-populations/lgbtq-victims/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.ovcttac.gov/taskforceguide/eguide/4-supporting-victims/45-victim-populations/lgbtq-victims/)LGBTQ Victims Great strides are being made toward bringing equality and understanding of the LBGTQ community; however, strong societal discrimination still remains, particularly in the area of victim identification and service provision. Various studies have shown that LGBTQ individuals are more likely to be bullied by their peers, ostracized by their communities, or be vulnerable to human trafficking. According to the Family and Youth Services Bureau within the Administration of Children and Families at HHS, LGBTQ youth account for up to 40 percent (2015) [PDF 2.2MB] of the runaway and homeless youth population. Once living on the street, the vulnerability to human trafficking can increase significantly. Like other populations, LGBTQ individuals who are trafficked have specific needs that must be addressed. It is important for service providers to understand their experience of violence and trauma, to understand the specific fears of rejection and discrimination, to educate all task force members about LGBTQ communities, and to ensure that they are treated with sensitivity and respect by providing training and consultations with members across the task force. Below are some key considerations when working with LGBTQ victims: Keep in mind victims may not immediately appear to be LGBTQ or initially self-identify. If a victim identifies as LGBTQ, note that this detail may come out over time. Victims may feel the crime is punishment for their sexual orientation or that they were targeted because they are gay. They may also worry that the trafficking affected their sexual orientation. This fear may lead to withdrawal from the community and development of self-loathing related to their sexual orientation. If you suspect this may be a dynamic for a victim, allow them time to feel safe and comfortable disclosing these issues. - Demonstrate that the task force is LGBTQ-victim friendly. Task force members should be committed to providing the best possible services to all victims and survivors regardless of gender identity and sexual orientation. It is important to have a statement that explicitly states that all survivors have access to services, including lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer people. Task force service providers should consider hanging posters or materials in their offices that indicate that they are LGBTQ friendly. - Identify appropriate services and housing placement. It is critical to provide age-appropriate and culturally competent care for heterosexual, gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, and queer individuals. - Identify peer-to-peer support programs. In addition to utilizing a traditional clinical approach to trauma treatment, identify client-centered peer counseling that can help address the social, political, and economic contexts of LGBTQ client difficulties. These peer-to-peer programs often combine alternative trauma treatments, such as art therapy, which are proven to be very effective. - For additional information and tools, visit the Resource page for Section 4.5 Victim Populations.
## https://www.ovcttac.gov/taskforceguide/eguide/4-supporting-victims/resources-45-victim-populations/


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.ovcttac.gov/taskforceguide/eguide/4-supporting-victims/resources-45-victim-populations/)Resources: 4.5 Victim Populations Minors and Adolescent Victims Commercial Sexual Exploitation and Trafficking of Minors Justice for Juveniles: Exploring Non-Criminal Response Mechanisms for Child Sex Trafficking (2015) [PDF 700KB] Report details potential factors that affect the community's response to juvenile sex trafficking victims. The main issues noted were the lack of resources and need for coordination. The report also provides recommendations in forming state responses, including coordination with the child welfare system as a key partner. - Homelessness, Survival Sex, and Human Trafficking: As Experienced by the Youth of Covenant House New York (2013) [PDF 7.9 MB] This report presents one of the largest human trafficking studies of homeless youth in New York history. The study looks at the incidence of trafficking and survival sex through interviews with the youth at Covenant House. Contrary to other studies, the incidents of introduction into commercial sex fell at around 18 years old. - Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children/Sex Trafficking (August 2014) [PDF 255KB] OJJDP's brief overview and introduction to the topic. - Confronting Commercial Sexual Exploitation and Sex Trafficking of Minors in the United States (2013) This resource examines commercial sexual exploitation and sex trafficking of U.S. citizens and lawful permanent residents of the United States under age 18. The report recommends increased awareness and understanding, strengthening of the law's response, strengthening of research to advance understanding and to support the development of prevention and intervention strategies, support for multi-sector and interagency collaboration, and creation of a digital information-sharing platform. - Confronting Commercial Sexual Exploitation and Sex Trafficking (2013) This report examines commercial sexual exploitation and sex trafficking of U.S. citizens and lawful permanent residents of the United States under age 18. It is provided by Institute of Medicine and National Research Council. - Human Trafficking Protocol for Minor Victims of Trafficking (No Date) Developed by the Ohio Human Trafficking Task Force. - Youth Involvement in the Sex Trade (2016) [PDF 3.7MB] This study discusses ethnographic findings concerning the lives of youth in the sex trade in several selected research sites and presents findings relevant to outreach to and services for potentially trafficked youth. - Toolkit: Trauma-Informed Case Management with Foreign National Children and Youth Survivors of Trafficking [PDF 4.0MB] - Foreign National Child Victims Assistance for Child Victims of Human Trafficking Fact Sheet (2016) [PDF 564KB] This fact sheet provides a summary of services available to minor foreign national victims of trafficking. - Guide for State Courts in Cases Involving Unaccompanied Immigrant Children (2015) [PDF 3.4MB] This guide, a collaboration from the Center for Public Policy Studies and the National Center for State Courts, aims to increase understanding of federal immigration laws and unaccompanied immigrant children in state courts. The guide focuses on Special Immigrant Juvenile Status as one of the options for unaccompanied minors. - Requesting Assistance for Child Victims of Human Trafficking (July 2021) This webpage by the Department of Health and Human Services provides the steps on how to request assistance with a child victim of human trafficking. - Flores Settlement Agreement of 1997 [PDF 3.8MB] After two organizations filed class action suits against the Immigration and Naturalization Services for the detention, treatment, and release of unaccompanied immigrant children, the Flores Settlement imposed several obligations on the immigration authorities. - General Resources Human Trafficking and Child Welfare: A Guide for Child Welfare Agencies (2017) This guide from the Child Welfare Information Gateway identifies how child welfare agencies can support child victims of human trafficking and vulnerable youth. - Human Trafficking and Child Welfare: A Guide for Caseworkers (2017) The guide provides tools and resources to assist caseworkers in identifying and supporting potential victims of human trafficking. - Outcome Measurement System The National Children's Alliance Outcome Measurement System conducts surveys of nonoffending parents/caregivers in child abuse cases and multidisciplinary team members to determine the strengths of Child Advocacy Center (CAC) services, as well as gaps. CACs may have a key role in identifying and assisting victims of trafficking. - Guidance to States and Services on Addressing Human Trafficking of Children and Youth in the United States (September 2013) This guide discusses the nature of child trafficking, understanding the needs of victims, coordinating services, meeting needs and responding, and additional assistance available to child victims. - Trying for a New Life: Trafficking Victims in Maternity Group Homes (September 2020) [PDF 257KB] Young women who were trafficked are a regular presence at maternity group homes. Their trauma and its effects can pose obstacles to a program's effectiveness, and also make these young women feel unworthy of motherhood. But a child can also be very motivating for trafficking victims, provided that treatment helps them overcome their emotional trauma. - Male Victims of Trafficking And Boys Too (2013) [PDF 259KB] This is an ECPAT-USA discussion paper about the lack of recognition of the commercial sexual exploitation of boys in the United States. - LGBTQ Victims Breaking Barriers: Improving Services for Human trafficking Victims (2015) This Polaris report provides 10 action steps to increase an organization's capacity to serve LGBTQ victims. - Let's Talk About It! A Transgender Survivor's Guide to Accessing Therapy (2015) [PDF 3.3MB]This guide provides information for transgender, gender non-confirming, and gender non-binary survivors of sexual violence. The document presents core information about trauma and its aftermath, and gives options for healing and self-help techniques for a wide range of needs, in addition to relevant resources. - Locked In: Interactions With the Criminal Justice and Child Welfare Systems for LGBTQ Youth, YMSM, and YWSW Who Engage in Survival Sex (2015) The Urban Institute report focuses on LGBTQ youth who are involved in the commercial sex market and their interactions with law enforcement, the criminal justice system, and the child welfare system. - Toward Equity (2015) The Equity Project's training curriculum provides instructors with an outline for promoting competency and awareness in working with the LGBTQ community in the juvenile justice system. Lessons cover sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression. - Surviving the Streets of New York: Experiences of LGBTQ Youth, YMSM, and YWSW Engaged in Survival Sex (2015) Published by the Urban Institute, this study looks at characteristics of youth who engage in survival sex in New York City. The study examines demographics, motivations, and factors such as peer or exploiter relationships. One section of the report examines youth relationships with exploiters and potential traffickers. - Building Relationships With Transgender Individuals (2014) This article, from the December issue of Police Chief Magazine, provides statistics on violence experienced by the transgender community and the need for building relationships with transgender advocacy and community groups in order to increase reporting and collaboration from transgender victims of crime. The article recommends strategies for building rapport. - LGBTQ Youths in the Juvenile Justice System (August 2014) [PDF 315KB]: OJJDP's brief summary of the LGBTQ risk factors for trafficking. - Responding to Transgender Victims of Sexual Assault (June 2014) Developed by OVC, this online guide was designed to help educate those who respond to sexual assault victims about what it means to be transgender and how to provide these victims with appropriate, accessible care. The guide presents a wide array of information in a user-friendly electronic format that allows practitioners to pick and choose the information that is most useful to them, from basic information about the transgender experience to specific guidance for sexual assault service providers and advocates, law enforcement officers, medical and mental health care providers, and support group facilitators. It includes practical tools to promote understanding and support of transgender victims, such as preferred language terms and transgender 101. - Why It Matters: Rethinking Victim Assistance for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer Victims of Hate Violence and Intimate Partner Violence (March 2010) [PDF 739KB] This report describes widespread gaps in victim services for LGBTQ victims of crime and recommends steps to improve both the services and their accessibility. - Health Disparities Among Sexual Sexual Minority Youth This webpage outlines the health risks LGBTQ youth face, including higher rates of depression and violence than their peers. - Victims with Disabilities Supporting Crime Victims with Disabilities This 3-day training offered by OVC TTAC is designed for victim service providers, advocates for people with disabilities, self-advocates, and allied professionals. Using case studies and small group discussions, participants examine the prevalence of crime against people with disabilities, perceptions of the criminal justice system, tenets of the disabilities movement, and the impact of disabilities on daily life. Through collaborative activities you will identify ways the various agencies, organizations, and systems can work together to better serve crime victims with disabilities. - Crime Victims with Developmental Disabilities (2001) Criminal Justice and Behavior. Vol. 28 No. 6 655-694. The author offers several conceptual models to explain differential victimization risk, including routine activities theory, dependency-stress model, cultural stereotyping, and victim-learned compliance. This article summarizes the research evidence on crimes against children and adults with developmental disabilities. It is divided into four sections. The first section describes the nature and extent of crimes against individuals with developmental disabilities. The second reviews the literature on risk factors associated with victimization. The third discusses the manner in which justice agencies respond to these crimes. The final section enumerates what research and policy initiatives might address the problem. - "Laws in Your State" This chart summarizes mandatory reporters by state for elders and those with a disability. - Human Trafficking of Youth with Disabilities (2020) - Native American Communities American Indian Adolescent Girls: Vulnerability to Sex Trafficking, Intervention Strategies [PDF 529KB] This article discusses factors that increase American Indian youth's vulnerability to sex trafficking, as well as providing practices to mitigate these factors. - A Healing Journey for Alaska Natives (October 2016) This video series discusses how domestic violence, sexual assault, and human trafficking impact the Alaska Native community, and considers cultural and geographic factors. The series also highlights programs that assist survivors within these communities. - Shattered Hearts: The Commercial Sexual Exploitation of American Indian Women and Girls in Minnesota (2009) This comprehensive report on sexual exploitation of American Indian Women and Girls also includes issues of trafficking, school, drug abuse and suicide. - Human Trafficking & Native Peoples in Oregon: A Human Rights Report (2014) This report includes an overview of jurisdictional issues as well as recommendations. - Essay: Sex Trafficking of American Indian Women and Girls in Minnesota (2008) This article from the University of St. Thomas Law Journal presents evidence from the Minnesota Indian Women's Resource Center concerning sexual violence against Indian women and sex trafficking in Minnesota. A response from the state is included. - Identifying Domestic and International Sex-Trafficking Victims During Human Service Provision (2012) This article from the University of St. Thomas Law Journal presents evidence from the Minnesota Indian Women's Resource Center concerning sexual violence against Indian women and sex trafficking in Minnesota. A response from the state is included. -
## https://www.ovcttac.gov/saaspt/module9.cfm


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.ovcttac.gov/saaspt/module9.cfm)1 hour Use this module to describe the impact of sexual assault on cisgender men and people who are LGBTQ+, describe the barriers that exist when these individuals seek support and services after experiencing sexual violence, and explore culturally responsive approaches to serving those who experience sexual violence. Lessons Impacts of Sexual Assault on Cisgender Men and LGBTQ+ Individuals (10 minutes) Barriers to Cisgender Men and LGBTQ+ Individuals in Seeking Support and Services After Sexual Assault (30 minutes) Assisting Male-Identified and LGBTQ+ Individuals Who Experience Sexual Assault (20 minutes) Learning Objectives By the end of this module, participants will be able to Describe the impacts of sexual assault on cisgender men and LGBTQ+ individuals. Describe the barriers that exist when cisgender men and LGBTQ+ individuals seek support and services after experiencing sexual violence. Explore culturally responsive approaches to serving cisgender men and LGBTQ+ individuals who experience sexual violence. Module-Specific Downloads To download files, right click on the file and select "save target as." Training Manuals *PDFs of the full curriculum are in the Presenter's Toolbox. Tools PowerPoint Slides [PDF 2.09MB] *The full curriculum's slides are in the Presenter's Toolbox. Important Read the trainer's materials included on the module pages well before presenting the course to your audience; these materials contain preparation instructions essential to an effective training. Tip Create a folder for SAASPT on your computer and download all the files you'll need in that folder rather than using the SAASPT Web site during the training. To download files, right click on the file and select "save target as."
## https://www.ovcttac.gov/resourceLibrary/index.cfm?nm=tsd&jcKey=Cultural%20Awareness


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.ovcttac.gov/resourceLibrary/index.cfm?nm=tsd&jcKey=Cultural%20Awareness)Welcome to the Resource Library, a searchable collection of materials that you can use for your organizational development and training needs. Inside you will find tools, promotional items, reference materials, and more. Clear SearchTitle| Cross Model of Cultural Competence (PDF, 38 KB) This document outlines Terry Cross’s six stages of cultural competence and leaves room for practitioners to evaluate their own level of cultural competence. Search Terms: Cultural Competence, Cultural Awareness, Victim Services, Culturally Appropriate | Cultural Competence Planning Worksheet (PDF, 34 KB) By using this worksheet, practitioners and organizations are guided to identify and create practical strategies to overcome cultural barriers in their communities and become culturally competent. Search Terms: Cultural Competence, Cultural Awareness, Victim Services, Culturally Appropriate | Cultural Influences on Communication (PDF, 31 KB) Identifying situations that cause unease is an essential step toward cultural competence. This checklist helps practitioners identify what makes them uncomfortable about different cultural communication styles. Search Terms: Cultural Competence, Cultural Awareness, Victim Services, Communications | High-Context and Low-Context Cultures (PDF, 49 KB) As described in Edward T. Hall’s 1976 book Beyond Culture, two forms of communication exist, high- and low-context. Ultimately, this document gives comprehensive summaries of both communication styles and is intended for cultural education of practitioners and organizations. Search Terms: Cultural Competence, Cultural Awareness, Victim Services, Culturally Appropriate | Creating an LGBTQ-Friendly Agency (PDF, 12 KB) By working with management, the organization, LGBTQ survivors, and staff, this worksheet can help an organization plot and plan to ensure the organization is LGBTQ friendly. Search Terms: LGBTQ, Cultural Competence, Cultural Awareness, Victim Services, Culturally Appropriate, Survivors |
## https://www.ovcttac.gov/resourceLibrary/index.cfm?nm=tsd&jcKey=Cultural%20Competence


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.ovcttac.gov/resourceLibrary/index.cfm?nm=tsd&jcKey=Cultural%20Competence)Welcome to the Resource Library, a searchable collection of materials that you can use for your organizational development and training needs. Inside you will find tools, promotional items, reference materials, and more. Clear SearchTitle| Cross Model of Cultural Competence (PDF, 38 KB) This document outlines Terry Cross’s six stages of cultural competence and leaves room for practitioners to evaluate their own level of cultural competence. Search Terms: Cultural Competence, Cultural Awareness, Victim Services, Culturally Appropriate | Cultural Competence Planning Worksheet (PDF, 34 KB) By using this worksheet, practitioners and organizations are guided to identify and create practical strategies to overcome cultural barriers in their communities and become culturally competent. Search Terms: Cultural Competence, Cultural Awareness, Victim Services, Culturally Appropriate | Cultural Influences on Communication (PDF, 31 KB) Identifying situations that cause unease is an essential step toward cultural competence. This checklist helps practitioners identify what makes them uncomfortable about different cultural communication styles. Search Terms: Cultural Competence, Cultural Awareness, Victim Services, Communications | High-Context and Low-Context Cultures (PDF, 49 KB) As described in Edward T. Hall’s 1976 book Beyond Culture, two forms of communication exist, high- and low-context. Ultimately, this document gives comprehensive summaries of both communication styles and is intended for cultural education of practitioners and organizations. Search Terms: Cultural Competence, Cultural Awareness, Victim Services, Culturally Appropriate | Creating an LGBTQ-Friendly Agency (PDF, 12 KB) By working with management, the organization, LGBTQ survivors, and staff, this worksheet can help an organization plot and plan to ensure the organization is LGBTQ friendly. Search Terms: LGBTQ, Cultural Competence, Cultural Awareness, Victim Services, Culturally Appropriate, Survivors |
## https://www.ovcttac.gov/resourceLibrary/index.cfm?nm=tsd&jcKey=Culturally%20Appropriate


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.ovcttac.gov/resourceLibrary/index.cfm?nm=tsd&jcKey=Culturally%20Appropriate)Welcome to the Resource Library, a searchable collection of materials that you can use for your organizational development and training needs. Inside you will find tools, promotional items, reference materials, and more. Clear SearchTitle| Cross Model of Cultural Competence (PDF, 38 KB) This document outlines Terry Cross’s six stages of cultural competence and leaves room for practitioners to evaluate their own level of cultural competence. Search Terms: Cultural Competence, Cultural Awareness, Victim Services, Culturally Appropriate | Cultural Competence Planning Worksheet (PDF, 34 KB) By using this worksheet, practitioners and organizations are guided to identify and create practical strategies to overcome cultural barriers in their communities and become culturally competent. Search Terms: Cultural Competence, Cultural Awareness, Victim Services, Culturally Appropriate | High-Context and Low-Context Cultures (PDF, 49 KB) As described in Edward T. Hall’s 1976 book Beyond Culture, two forms of communication exist, high- and low-context. Ultimately, this document gives comprehensive summaries of both communication styles and is intended for cultural education of practitioners and organizations. Search Terms: Cultural Competence, Cultural Awareness, Victim Services, Culturally Appropriate | Creating an LGBTQ-Friendly Agency (PDF, 12 KB) By working with management, the organization, LGBTQ survivors, and staff, this worksheet can help an organization plot and plan to ensure the organization is LGBTQ friendly. Search Terms: LGBTQ, Cultural Competence, Cultural Awareness, Victim Services, Culturally Appropriate, Survivors |
## https://www.ovcttac.gov/resourceLibrary/index.cfm?nm=tsd&jcKey=Survivors


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.ovcttac.gov/resourceLibrary/index.cfm?nm=tsd&jcKey=Survivors)Welcome to the Resource Library, a searchable collection of materials that you can use for your organizational development and training needs. Inside you will find tools, promotional items, reference materials, and more. Clear SearchTitle| Creating an LGBTQ-Friendly Agency (PDF, 12 KB) By working with management, the organization, LGBTQ survivors, and staff, this worksheet can help an organization plot and plan to ensure the organization is LGBTQ friendly. Search Terms: LGBTQ, Cultural Competence, Cultural Awareness, Victim Services, Culturally Appropriate, Survivors |
## https://www.ovcttac.gov/resourceLibrary/index.cfm?nm=tsd&jcKey=Victim%20Services


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.ovcttac.gov/resourceLibrary/index.cfm?nm=tsd&jcKey=Victim%20Services)Welcome to the Resource Library, a searchable collection of materials that you can use for your organizational development and training needs. Inside you will find tools, promotional items, reference materials, and more. Clear SearchTitle| Cross Model of Cultural Competence (PDF, 38 KB) This document outlines Terry Cross’s six stages of cultural competence and leaves room for practitioners to evaluate their own level of cultural competence. Search Terms: Cultural Competence, Cultural Awareness, Victim Services, Culturally Appropriate | Cultural Competence Planning Worksheet (PDF, 34 KB) By using this worksheet, practitioners and organizations are guided to identify and create practical strategies to overcome cultural barriers in their communities and become culturally competent. Search Terms: Cultural Competence, Cultural Awareness, Victim Services, Culturally Appropriate | Cultural Influences on Communication (PDF, 31 KB) Identifying situations that cause unease is an essential step toward cultural competence. This checklist helps practitioners identify what makes them uncomfortable about different cultural communication styles. Search Terms: Cultural Competence, Cultural Awareness, Victim Services, Communications | High-Context and Low-Context Cultures (PDF, 49 KB) As described in Edward T. Hall’s 1976 book Beyond Culture, two forms of communication exist, high- and low-context. Ultimately, this document gives comprehensive summaries of both communication styles and is intended for cultural education of practitioners and organizations. Search Terms: Cultural Competence, Cultural Awareness, Victim Services, Culturally Appropriate | Creating an LGBTQ-Friendly Agency (PDF, 12 KB) By working with management, the organization, LGBTQ survivors, and staff, this worksheet can help an organization plot and plan to ensure the organization is LGBTQ friendly. Search Terms: LGBTQ, Cultural Competence, Cultural Awareness, Victim Services, Culturally Appropriate, Survivors | Applicable Laws (PDF, 69 KB) Covering nine laws, this document details each law and its relevance to acts of violence. Search Terms: Disabilities, Functional Needs, Access Needs, Victim Services, Legal, Laws | Potential Partners (PDF, 55 KB) This worksheet lets organizations list potential partners, their current relationships, and benefits. Search Terms: Disabilities, Functional Needs, Access Needs, Victim Services, Partners |
## https://www.ovcttac.gov/views/TrainingMaterials/dspTrainingByRequest.cfm?nm=tta&ns=td&nt=smccp


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.ovcttac.gov/views/TrainingMaterials/dspTrainingByRequest.cfm?nm=tta&ns=td&nt=smccp)Participants who complete this training will earn a Certificate of Completion that can be used toward earning up to 8.75 Department of Defense Sexual Assault Advocate Certification Program (D-SAACP) CEUs for attending both days of the in-person 1.5-day SMCCP training or 5.75 D-SAACP CEUs for attending the second day of the in-person SMCCP training. Participants who complete this training online will earn a Certificate of Completion that can be used toward earning up to 8.0 Department of Defense Sexual Assault Advocate Certification Program (D-SAACP) CEUs. The military has its own way of life – its own social structure, unique hierarchy, and even its own laws. Community-based victim service providers who are not familiar with the military may find it baffling and impenetrable. But when a sexual assault involves both community and military providers, both parties must know how to work together to support the victim more effectively. This interactive, 1.5-day training is designed for community victim advocates, law enforcement officials, sexual assault nurse examiners, mental health counselors, prosecutors, military victim advocates, sexual assault medical forensic examiners, military chaplains, and military criminal investigators. The purpose of this program is to train local community victim advocates on building effective partnerships with local military installations to enhance and extend the system of support for sexual assault victims in the military. Throughout this training, participants build knowledge about military systems, protocols, and culture to improve service provision to sexual assault victims in the military and to develop an appreciation of the perspectives of their future collaborative partners. With the knowledge gained through this training process and their own expertise in sexual assault, local community victim advocates will be able to serve as knowledgeable resources to military installations. Active participation in each of the following training modules will help you accomplish these specific learning objectives: Introduction and Getting Acquainted Explain the importance of establishing credibility with the military. - - Military 101 Identify the branches of military service. - Describe the military command structure. - Distinguish between military and civilian culture. - - Military Response to Sexual Assault Examine the issue of sexual violence in the military and the Department of Defense's (DoD) response. - Identify military resources and examine their roles and responsibilities. - Compare and contrast roles of community-based advocates, military victim advocates (VA), and sexual assault response coordinators (SARCs). - - Confidentiality and Reporting Options Explain Restricted and Unrestricted Reporting options for sexual assault. - Identify military personnel who offer privilege, confidential reporting, and covered communications. - Summarize the mandated reporting requirements. - Explain how a forensic exam can impact Restricted Reporting. - Explain how mandated reporting can impact receiving medical care. - - Unique Issues for Sexual Assault Victims in the Military Explain military sexual trauma. - Describe issues unique to military victims of sexual violence. - Identify possible barriers to reporting sexual assault within the military. - Identify issues with male victims in the military. - - Military Justice Process Examine DoD Directive's Victim Bill of Rights. - Identify the Commander's role in the military justice system. - Compare and contrast military and civilian justice systems. - - Steps Toward Successful Collaboration Identify barriers and solutions for successful collaborations with the military. - Describe tips for establishing successful collaborations with the military. - - Let Others Know About This Training Download Flier [PDF, 299KB] to print and distribute. Strengthening Military -Civilian Community Partnerships To Respond to Sexual Assault (SMCCP) 2.0: Responding to Military LGBTQ+ Survivors of Sexual Assault The Strengthening Military-Civilian Community Partnerships To Respond to Sexual Assault (SMCCP) 2.0: Responding to Military LGBTQ+ Survivors of Sexual Assault training is now available for victim service providers. SMCCP 2.0: LGBTQ+ is an interactive, 3-hour supplemental module to the current SMCCP training. SMCCP 2.0: LGBTQ+ allows community- and military-based advocates and allied providers to take a more indepth look at serving military LGBTQ+ sexual assault survivors. Throughout the training, participants will learn the language and terms used when working with LGBTQ+ communities, identify statistics of LGBTQ+ military sexual assaults, discuss trauma-informed approaches to serving military LGBTQ+ victims, and identify on- and off-installation resources. By increasing awareness and knowledge, both community and military victim advocates will begin or build on their understanding of LGBTQ+ survivors of sexual assault in the military and how best to serve them. Participants who complete this training will earn a Certificate of Completion that can be used toward D-SAACP CEUs. If you would like additional information about SMCCP 2.0: LGBTQ+, or to learn how to bring this training to your installation or community, please contact OVC TTAC at TTAC@ovcttac.org. Strengthening Military-Civilian Community Partnerships To Respond to Sexual Assault (SMCCP) 2.0: Responding to Military Male-Identified Survivors of Sexual Assault The Strengthening Military-Civilian Community Partnerships To Respond to Sexual Assault (SMCCP) 2.0: Responding to Military Male-Identified Survivors of Sexual Assault training is now available for victim service providers. SMCCP 2.0: Male-Identified Survivors is an interactive, 4-hour supplemental, in person training that allows community- and military-based advocates and allied providers to take a more in-depth look at serving military male-identified sexual assault survivors. Throughout the training, participants will gain a better understanding of the role of male gender socialization in the experience of military sexual violence, examine the role of hazing and sexual harassment in victimization, compare and contrast traditional victim service delivery models to the public health approach, and explore trauma-informed responses and resources for male-identified victims of sexual assault. Participants who complete this training will earn a Certificate of Completion that can be used toward D-SAACP CEUs. If you would like additional information about SMCCP 2.0: Male-Identified, or to learn how to bring this training to your installation or community, please contact OVC TTAC at TTAC@ovcttac.org.