



# [stlouisfed.org](stlouisfed.org): ~3 pages censored since 1/20/25

## https://www.stlouisfed.org/on-the-economy/2022/dec/lgbtq-adults-report-struggles-food-housing-mental-well-being


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.stlouisfed.org/on-the-economy/2022/dec/lgbtq-adults-report-struggles-food-housing-mental-well-being)LGBTQ+ Adults Report Struggles with Food, Housing Costs and Mental Well-Being During the first half of 2022, almost half of LGBTQ+ adults (45%) found it somewhat or very difficult to pay for usual household expenses such as food, housing and medical costs. By comparison, only 34% of non-LGBTQ+ adults reported the same financial difficulties. This gap is partly a result of income and wealth inequality between these two groups, as explained in our first On the Economy blog post in this series. In this post, we dive deeper into how LGBTQ+ adults and non-LGBTQ+ adults are faring after the COVID-19 recession in 2020 and with high inflation in 2022.LGBTQ+ adults are those who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer and/or questioning, and non-LGBTQ+ adults are those who identify as straight and cisgender (individuals whose current gender identity matches their sex at birth). Using data from the Federal Reserve Board’s 2021 Survey of Household Economics and Decisionmaking (SHED) and the Census Bureau’s Household Pulse Survey (HPS),For HPS, we grouped survey waves 41-48, which were collected in 2022. we found the following: - LGBTQ+ adults were more likely than non-LGBTQ+ adults to report being better off financially in 2021 than they were prior to the COVID-19 crisis (42% versus 35%), according to SHED data. This relative improvement between 2019 and 2021 may stem from two main supports: unprecedented government aid in response to the COVID-19 recession in the form of stimulus checks and enhanced unemployment benefits, which disproportionately helped lower-income adults, and the strong recovery and expansion in 2021. - Despite these relative gains, significant disparities in economic well-being remain. One-third of LGBTQ+ adults reported they were “just getting by” or “finding it difficult to get by” financially in 2021, compared with one-fifth of non-LGBTQ+ adults, SHED data reveal. - LGBTQ+ adults experienced higher rates of food and housing insecurity than non-LGBTQ+ adults in 2022, according to HPS data. They also reported more struggles with mental well-being. LGBTQ+ Adults Experienced Higher Rates of Food and Housing Insecurity With generally lower incomes and more limited financial resources, LGBTQ+ adults may be forced more so than other populations to make daily decisions about which expenses to prioritize. One expense that is likely top of mind is food, especially since inflation has significantly increased food prices. There are large differences in food insecurity rates between LGBTQ+ and non-LGBTQ+ adults, according to HPS data. In 2022, almost one-fifth (17%) of LGBTQ+ adults reported “sometimes” or “often” not having enough food to eat compared with 10% of non-LGBTQ+ adults. Within the LGBTQ+ group, transgender adults were most likely to experience food insecurity. The cost burden of housing is another measure of financial pressure on households. Fifteen percent of renters were behind on rent payments in 2022. This rate of housing insecurity did not differ between LGBTQ+ and non-LGBTQ+ adults. However, LGBTQ+ homeowners with mortgages were more likely to be behind in their mortgage payments than non-LGBTQ+ homeowners, at 9% versus 6%. Multiple studies have found evidence of discrimination in rental housing searches and mortgage lending against LGBTQ+ people.For examples of research on these issues, see this 2018 article in the journal Housing Policy Debate (PDF) and this 2019 article in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. As we documented in our last post, LGBTQ+ adults are generally less likely to be homeowners. Yet, for those who obtain what is the largest asset for most families—a house—LGBTQ+ adults are still more financially insecure. Non-LGBTQ+ Adults Were More Likely to Meet Spending Needs through Income Almost half of LGBTQ+ adults found it somewhat or very difficult to pay for common household expenses in the first half of 2022. Yet, there was great variability within this group, as can be seen in the figure below. This decomposition by sexual orientation and gender identity to better understand which groups have the most difficulty meeting expenses is the first of its kind, to our knowledge. When looking within the cisgender population, bisexual men and bisexual women were more likely than straight men and gay men and straight women and lesbian women to have difficulty meeting expenses. Previously, we also found that cisgender bisexual men and bisexual women had the fewest assets. Discrimination may play a role in these financial difficulties; for example, in 2018 bisexual adults reported experiencing greater stigma and less social support and acceptance than lesbian women or gay men. Transgender adults and adults who identified as a gender not listed in the HPS also typically had difficulty meeting expenses. Difficulties in Meeting Expenses, by Gender and Sexual Orientation SOURCES: Household Pulse Survey (waves 41-48) and authors’ calculations. NOTES: The percentage of respondents who reported that it was “somewhat” or “very difficult” to pay for usual household expenses in the past seven days from the date they were surveyed. The category of “none of these genders” represents those in the survey who did not identify as male, female or transgender. In general, LGBTQ+ adults lacked liquidity, or cash on hand, to handle usual and emergency expenses, as HPS data reveal. For example, LGBTQ+ adults were more likely than non-LGBTQ+ adults to use credit cards or loans, savings and asset sales to meet usual spending needs. They were also almost twice as likely to borrow from friends and family to meet spending needs. Additionally, 14% of LGBTQ+ adults said they would be completely unable to handle a relatively small $400 emergency expense with cash or its equivalent (versus 10% of non-LGBTQ+ adults), according to SHED data. This lack of a cash buffer makes LGBTQ+ adults more vulnerable to unexpected economic events, like the COVID-19 recession and, more recently, high inflation. One financial rule of thumb is to have an emergency fund large enough to cover at least three months of expenses. Over one-third of LGBTQ+ adults and one-quarter of non-LGBTQ+ adults reported not having these emergency funds and not being able to cover these expenses for three months even with other means (e.g., borrowing money, using savings or selling assets). LGBTQ+ Adults Experienced Poorer Mental Health As noted previously, LGBTQ+ adults generally have lower incomes and wealth than their non-LGBTQ+ counterparts. They also have greater difficulty meeting expenses like food, housing and other necessities. The resulting stress may be a primary reason why LGBTQ+ adults experience poorer mental health. Over 75% of LGBTQ+ adults reported experiencing symptoms of anxiety—such as feeling nervous, anxious or on edge—compared with 55% of non-LGBTQ+ adults.Reflects any self-reported symptoms of anxiety or depression, not necessarily clinical levels of anxiety or depression, as stated in HPS. Similarly, LGBTQ+ adults reported experiencing symptoms of depression—such as feeling down, depressed or hopeless—at a rate over 1.5 times that of non-LGBTQ+ adults (68% versus 45%). Discrimination may also play a role in these higher rates of anxiety and depression. LGBTQ+ adults in 2021 were about twice as likely to have experienced discrimination as non-LGBTQ+ adults (17.2% versus 8.7%). LGBTQ+ adults were most likely to indicate they experienced discrimination while working or applying for a job and while shopping. The workplace was an additional source of stress and anxiety for LGBTQ+ adults: for example, 16% said their employer was not taking enough precautions against COVID-19, compared with 11% of non-LGBTQ+ adults. Part one of this On the Economy blog series documented the gaps in income and wealth for LGBTQ+ adults. As demonstrated in this post, the consequences of those gaps reach many parts of the daily lives of LGBTQ+ people: paying for food, housing and other spending needs. These disparities may impact the mental health of LGBTQ+ people as well. The high likelihood of experiencing symptoms of anxiety and depression among adults, especially LGBTQ+ adults, is troublesome and may have far-reaching consequences on employment, financial security and life fulfillment. Overall, our findings show large gaps between LGBTQ+ and non-LGBTQ+ adults. Despite some self-perceived improvement in financial well-being among LGBTQ+ adults between 2019 and 2021, economic equity has not yet been reached. The authors would like to thank Lowell Ricketts, data scientist at the St. Louis Fed’s Institute for Economic Equity, for technical assistance with this post. Notes - LGBTQ+ adults are those who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer and/or questioning, and non-LGBTQ+ adults are those who identify as straight and cisgender (individuals whose current gender identity matches their sex at birth). - For HPS, we grouped survey waves 41-48, which were collected in 2022. - For examples of research on these issues, see this 2018 article in the journal Housing Policy Debate (PDF) and this 2019 article in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. - Reflects any self-reported symptoms of anxiety or depression, not necessarily clinical levels of anxiety or depression, as stated in HPS. Citation Ana Hern├índez Kent and Sophia Scott, "LGBTQ+ Adults Report Struggles with Food, Housing Costs and Mental Well-Being," St. Louis Fed On the Economy, Dec. 20, 2022. This blog offers commentary, analysis and data from our economists and experts. Views expressed are not necessarily those of the St. Louis Fed or Federal Reserve System. Email Us All other blog-related questions
## https://www.stlouisfed.org/on-the-economy/2022/dec/new-analysis-finds-lgbtq-households-trail-income-wealth


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.stlouisfed.org/on-the-economy/2022/dec/new-analysis-finds-lgbtq-households-trail-income-wealth)New Analysis Finds LGBTQ+ Households Trail in Income and Wealth Data from the Federal Reserve Board and Census Bureau point to large gaps in financial outcomes between adults and couples who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer and/or questioning (LGBTQ+) and those who identify as straight and cisgender (individuals whose current gender identity matches their sex at birth). In this post, we document some trends in economic well-being between LGBTQ+ and non-LGBTQ+ adults. Our findings reveal that LGBTQ+ adults had fewer savings and investments and lower incomes. Data also indicate they were less likely to be homeowners. Using the Census Bureau’s Household Pulse Survey (HPS), the Federal Reserve Board’s Survey of Household Economics and Decisionmaking (SHED) and the Survey of Consumer Finances (SCF),When using the SCF, we group survey waves 2013, 2016 and 2019 to get a large enough sample. SHED data are from 2021. For HPS, we group waves 41-48 collected in 2022. our research shows the following: Using HPS data, in 2022, 22% of LGBTQ+ adults had household incomes of less than $25,000 versus 14% of non-LGBTQ+ adults. LGBTQ+ adults were also less likely than non-LGBTQ+ adults to have household incomes of $100,000 or more (23% versus 31%). - According to the SCF for 2013-2019, female same-sex couples had about $82,000 in median wealth, less than half the median wealth of mixed-sex couples. - Using SHED data, in 2021, 65% of bisexual women had household savings and investments of less than $50,000. This was the highest share of any gender identity/sexual orientation group; by comparison, only 45% of straight women had less than $50,000 in household savings and investments. - Also per SHED, fewer than half of LGBTQ+ adults (44%) were homeowners in 2021, compared with over two-thirds (68%) of non-LGBTQ+ adults. - LGBTQ+ Adults Have Lower and Less Stable Household Incomes Income is one measure of financial stability, because people with higher incomes are better able to pay their bills on time and save for a rainy day. Using HPS data, in 2022, half of LGBTQ+ adults had less than $50,000 in household income (i.e., their income, plus that of a spouse or partner, if applicable). In contrast, only 38% of non-LGBTQ+ adults had household incomes below that amount. This disparity was present at the opposite end of the income range as well: Nearly a third (31%) of non-LGBTQ+ adults were in high-income households (earning $100,000 or more in household income), while just 23% of LGBTQ+ adults were in this group. Meanwhile, HPS and SHED data indicate that LGBTQ+ adults have less income and job stability than non-LGBTQ+ adults. Twenty-one percent of LGBTQ+ adults experienced a loss of employment income in their household in 2022, while only 14% of non-LGBTQ+ people did. Further, in 2021, LGBTQ+ working adults were more likely to have variable work schedules based on their employer’s needs. Their incomes also varied from month to month more frequently than did non-LGBTQ+ adults’ pay (36% versus 27%). Income and job instability make it difficult to plan ahead and may be two reasons why LGBTQ+ adults are more likely than non-LGBTQ+ to say they changed jobs in the past year. Households Led by Female Same-Sex Couples Have Lower Median Wealth The SCF is considered the gold standard of wealth data in the United States. Notwithstanding, the SCF does not measure sexual orientation and codes a binary sex variable: male or female. This results in a lack of information regarding LGBTQ+ households. One imperfect workaround (which we utilize here) is to focus on same-sex couples living in the same household.Though the SCF survey doesn’t ask about sexual orientation, it does ask whether the survey respondent is married or partnered with someone in the household unit and if so, what is the sex of that person. This leaves out the experiences of bisexual, queer and transgender adults in mixed-sex couples and single LGBTQ+ adults. In addition, because of small sample sizes, we grouped survey years for 2013 to 2019. Our results using this methodology show that households led by female same-sex couples had lower median wealth than those headed by mixed-sex couples. In part, this may be because LGBTQ+ adults are more likely to have lower incomes, as we documented above. Additionally, data show that women have lower median incomes than men. Saving from an income surplus is one way to build wealth (along with investment, capital gains and inheritances). Wealth, or assets minus debts, is a key measure of financial stability, capacity for resiliency, and upward mobility. We found that in the grouped period of 2013 to 2019:Given the limitations of the SCF survey, estimates for the wealth of same-sex couples must be approached very cautiously. The sample size of same-sex couples was very small, even after combining three separate survey years. As a result, the 90% confidence intervals for median wealth were extremely wide: $33,000 to $131,000 for female same-sex couples and $15,000 to $217,000 for male same-sex couples. We excluded male same-sex couples from our analysis because their confidence interval overlapped the confidence interval for mixed-sex couples. Female same-sex couples had $82,000 in median household wealth. - Mixed-sex couples had $185,000 in median household wealth. - Single men and single women (of any sexual orientation) had $48,000 and $39,000 in median household wealth, respectively. - The median household wealth of female same-sex couples was less than half that of mixed-sex couples.Female same-sex couples had significantly less wealth than mixed-sex couples even after controlling for several other variables, including age, education, race/ethnicity and work status. Further, the wealth of female same-sex couples was only double that of single women. This suggests that no wealth “bonus” is present from partnership or marriage for same-sex female couples. On the other hand, mixed-sex couples’ wealth was greater than the combined household wealth of single women and single men. Untangling the reasons behind these findings will require more research and wider representation of LGBTQ+ groups in data sets. Bisexual Women and Transgender or Nonbinary Adults Have the Fewest Assets Looking more closely at the components of wealth reveals that LGBTQ+ adults are more likely to have fewer financial assets (like savings and investments) and are less likely to have nonfinancial assets (like a house) than non-LGBTQ+ adults. This decomposition by sexual orientation and gender identity is the first of its kind, to our knowledge. In terms of financial assets, over half of LGBTQ+ adults (54%) had less than $50,000 in these assets in 2021, while the same was true for only 43% of non-LGBTQ+ adults. Looking at the intersection of gender identity and sexual orientation reveals important differences, as can be seen in the figure below. Household Savings and Investments SOURCES: Federal Reserve Board's Survey of Household Economics and Decisionmaking, 2021; and authors’ calculations. NOTES: Respondents self-reported the total amount of their household’s savings and investments. Categories may not add to 100% due to rounding. The “other” category includes those who selected “a different identity” or “something else.” Bisexual women and bisexual men were more likely to have household assets and investments below $50,000 than their straight, lesbian or gay counterparts. The distributions of financial assets for gay men and straight men were very similar, and the distributions for lesbian women and straight women were similar as well. Bisexual women and the group of adults identifying as transgender, nonbinary, a different identity, and/or something else had the fewest assets and were the least likely to have savings and investments of $250,000 or more. Our research shows large gaps in nonfinancial assets as well. Housing is the largest asset for most families, yet per the 2021 SHED, fewer than half of LGBTQ+ adults (44%) were homeowners. In contrast, over two-thirds (68%) of non-LGBTQ+ adults owned their homes. This is likely a primary reason for wealth and asset differences between these two groups. The intersection of gender identity and sexual orientation is quite stark here as well, with 68% of straight men and straight women, 52% of gay men, 51% of lesbian women, 52% of bisexual men, 39% of bisexual women and 36% of adults identifying as transgender, nonbinary, a different identity, and/or something else owning their homes. LGBTQ+ Adults Have Less Financial Stability This post gives a broad overview of income and wealth trends for LGBTQ+ and non-LGBTQ+ populations. Along every measure, LGBTQ+ adults and families displayed greater financial fragility. We found that households headed by female same-sex couples had half as much wealth as households headed by mixed-sex couples. Additionally, LGBTQ+ adults had lower incomes, less-stable jobs and greater income volatility, and fewer savings and investments; in addition, they were less likely to be homeowners than non-LGBTQ+ adults. Bisexual women and those who identify as transgender, nonbinary, a different identity, and/or something else had the fewest assets and were roughly half as likely as straight men and straight women to be homeowners. Additional disparities in financial well-being and mental health will be covered in the next On the Economy post in this series. Notes When using the SCF, we group survey waves 2013, 2016 and 2019 to get a large enough sample. SHED data are from 2021. For HPS, we group waves 41-48 collected in 2022. - Though the SCF survey doesn’t ask about sexual orientation, it does ask whether the survey respondent is married or partnered with someone in the household unit and if so, what is the sex of that person. - Given the limitations of the SCF survey, estimates for the wealth of same-sex couples must be approached very cautiously. The sample size of same-sex couples was very small, even after combining three separate survey years. As a result, the 90% confidence intervals for median wealth were extremely wide: $33,000 to $131,000 for female same-sex couples and $15,000 to $217,000 for male same-sex couples. We excluded male same-sex couples from our analysis because their confidence interval overlapped the confidence interval for mixed-sex couples. - Female same-sex couples had significantly less wealth than mixed-sex couples even after controlling for several other variables, including age, education, race/ethnicity and work status. - Citation Ana Hern├índez Kent and Sophia Scott, "New Analysis Finds LGBTQ+ Households Trail in Income and Wealth," St. Louis Fed On the Economy, Dec. 1, 2022. This blog offers commentary, analysis and data from our economists and experts. Views expressed are not necessarily those of the St. Louis Fed or Federal Reserve System. Email Us All other blog-related questions
## https://www.stlouisfed.org/news-releases/2023/12/7/st-louis-fed-earns-perfect-score-on-corporate-equality-index


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://www.stlouisfed.org/news-releases/2023/12/7/st-louis-fed-earns-perfect-score-on-corporate-equality-index)St. Louis Fed Earns Perfect Score on Corporate Equality Index The Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis earned a perfect score of 100 on the Corporate Equality Index (CEI) for its demonstrated commitment to an inclusive workplace culture. The index is released annually by the Human Rights Campaign Foundation, which along with the Human Rights Campaign, serves as America's largest civil rights organization working to achieve LGBTQ+ equality. The St. Louis Fed has maintained the designation as a Best Place to Work for LGBTQ+ Equality since 2016. “Maintaining a perfect score shows how committed the Bank is to ensuring employees feel seen, known and appreciated,” said Cassie Blackwell, senior vice president of the Treasury Operations Division and executive sponsor of Central Pride, the Bank's LGBTQ+ employee resource group. “I feel incredibly proud and honored to sponsor Central Pride, supporting employees in living authentically and providing a community to engage and educate about LGBTQ+ experiences.” The CEI 2023-24 index evaluates LGBTQ+ policies and practices, including nondiscrimination workplace protections, equitable benefits for LGBTQ+ workers and their families, supporting an inclusive culture and corporate social responsibility. The commission says the number of companies participating in the CEI continues to grow and this year’s results showcase how U.S.-based employers are promoting LGBTQ+ friendly workplace policies. “It was great working with people across the Bank to provide the Human Rights Campaign Foundation with a snapshot of all our efforts towards LGBTQ+ inclusion,” said Allison Beckmann, co-chair of Central Pride. “It shows that we, as an organization, have taken steps to ensure all of our colleagues in the LGBTQ+ community are included and considered in important conversations.” The St. Louis Fed joins the ranks of more than 545 U.S. employers that earned top marks this year. Visit the 2023-24 Corporate Equality Index for more information or to download the report. Learn more about the St. Louis Fed’s culture of diversity, equity and inclusion.