



# [Department of Justice United States Department of Justice](usdoj.gov): ~9 pages censored since 1/20/25

## https://cops.usdoj.gov/html/dispatch/10-2016/21st_century_policing_forum.asp


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://cops.usdoj.gov/html/dispatch/10-2016/21st_century_policing_forum.asp)One phrase that I have been surprised to hear again and again is “outputs are not outcomes.” At first I was confused by the implication of the sentence and found it difficult to understand its meaning. The most recent time I heard the phrase I was at a forum on gender, sexuality, and 21st century policing titled “Protecting the Rights of LGBTQ+ People.” The forum included a panel of LGBTQ+ activists and allied law enforcement agents. These experts acknowledged many tensions that currently exist between the LGBTQ+ community and law enforcement agencies, as well as exchanging personal stories and experiences. Assistant Attorney General Karol Mason summed the purpose of the meeting up well when she said, “Equal rights and equal treatment do not always go hand in hand.” She utilized the examples of verbal abuse and mistreatment in jail toward LGBTQ+ people. These harms are just a small sampling of even larger problems between the LGBTQ+ community and law enforcement. Over the past decade, law enforcement agents have consistently been among the top three categories of perpetrators of homophobic or transphobic violence against LGBT people. Additionally, the 2015 LGBT Health and Human Services Needs Assessment conducted in New York State found one in five transgender respondents (21 percent) had been unfairly arrested, harassed, or physically harmed, with higher rates for transgender people of color (31 percent).1 When working with these statistics, as Johnathan Smith, Senior Counsel in the Office of the Assistant Attorney General, put it, “we must respond with empathy, unity, and of course, action.” During the course of the forum, that is just what the panelists tried to do. They spent a large portion of time looking at the challenges faced during police interactions with the LGBTQ+ community in the hopes of better understanding some ultimate solutions. Challenges identified ranged from the difficulties in building trust, to implicit and explicit biases, to the lack of ability to acquire comprehensive data. One of the greatest challenges recognized was in fact the lack of solution. For instance, one cannot simply ask someone at a police stop if they are gay or transgender without being offensive. Similarly, hate crimes toward LGBTQ+ people frequently go unreported. These two underlying issues may leave one to wonder “what can be done to acquire data on LGBTQ+ police encounters?” As unsatisfying as the answer is, it is clear that there is no tell-all solution. However, the lack of solution did not stop the panelists from discussing potential solutions to similar problems. For instance, many police biases can be combated by integration and exposure. By promoting programs such as a transgender person teaching and training recruits directly or having an LGBTQ+ person complete a ride-along with officers, the officers can make personal connections that may relieve some implicit biases. Other solutions that were discussed included acknowledgement in the form of an apology when needed, as well as in the form of recognizing the preconceived notions and prejudices that exist. The hours of discussion were filled with concrete examples and touching stories. Those accounts, coupled with talk about solutions to barriers, led me to finally grasp the difference between the words that have remained in my head for so long. Outputs are the “what we do” or the “who we reach,” in this case referring to training or policies in place for law enforcement. However, outcomes are the impact or the “what is the result.” As the forum frequently mentioned, we cannot simply solve issues by training alone. Training must be accompanied by knowledge, awareness, and ultimately action. It is both ineffective and dangerous to stop at outputs rather than outcomes. In regards to LGBTQ+ interactions with law enforcement, the outcomes are what make all of the difference. Rebecca Fallk Special Contributor The COPS Office 1 Hate Violence Against Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer and HIV-Affected Communities in the United States in 2010 (New York: National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs, 2011). http://www.avp.org/storage/documents/Reports/2011_NCAVP_HV_Reports.pdf. Photo Contest Winner: The Abington Township Police Department | President declares "National Community Policing Week" | Story: High Point, NC, Offender Focused Domestic Violence Initiative | Responding to Minority Youth | Halloween and “Deltopia” Made Safer by UCIV Volunteer Program | 21st Century Policing Forum: In “Protecting the Rights of LGBTQ+ People”
## https://cops.usdoj.gov/html/dispatch/06-2022/Broward_LGBTQ_Committee.html


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://cops.usdoj.gov/html/dispatch/06-2022/Broward_LGBTQ_Committee.html)To provide feedback on the Community Policing Dispatch, e-mail the editorial board at CPDispatch@usdoj.gov. To obtain details on COPS Office programs, publications, and resources, contact the COPS Office Response Center at 800-421-6770 or AskCopsRC@usdoj.gov U.S. Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services Since its inception in 2019, the Broward County (Florida) Sheriff’s Office (BSO) LGBTQ+ Committee has worked tirelessly to achieve goals that make Broward County more inclusive and highlight the role the BSO’s LGBTQ+ Committee plays in the communities we serve. Specifically, the LGBTQ+ Committee has participated in policy and training discussions to improve treatment and acceptance of LGBTQ+ individuals, increased outreach with the Broward County LGBTQ+ community, and spearheaded efforts to increase visibility across social media platforms. Recent committee activities include the following: The COPS Office has a number of relevant resources and assistance, including the Hate Crimes Resources webpage, Gender, Sexuality, and 21st Century Policing: Protecting the Rights of the LGBTQ+ Community, and Identifying and Preventing Gender Bias in Law Enforcement Response to Sexual Assault and Domestic Violence: A roundtable discussion. For agencies seeking direct, customized training and technical assistance, the COPS Office Collaborative Reform Initiative Technical Assistance Center (CRI-TAC) can provide no-cost training, mentoring, consultation, policy assistance, and peer exchanges in over 60 different topics. Finally, the COPS Office participates in the Interagency Working Group on Safety, Opportunity, and Inclusion for Transgender and Gender Diverse Individuals. On November 20, 2021, Memorializing Transgender Day of Remembrance: A Report from the Interagency Working Group on Safety, Opportunity, and Inclusion for Transgender and Gender Diverse Individuals was released, highlighting steps to advance LGBTQI+ equality as well as detailing more than 45 key actions and recommendations that are being pursued by the federal government. The COPS Office is a proud partner in these efforts. Additionally, the LGBTQ+ Committee continues to increase law enforcement recruiting efforts in the LGBTQ+ community and regularly consults with the BSO’s Training Division to provide important training and educational opportunities to BSO employees to enhance awareness and understanding of issues affecting the LGBTQ+ community. The BSO’s LGBTQ+ Committee began in 2019 as an opportunity for BSO employees to have an internal platform to share their thoughts and ideas regarding how the BSO shows support for LGBTQ+ employees and community. The first meeting took place three years ago between newly appointed Broward County Sheriff Gregory Tony and more than 40 employees from all of the BSO’s divisions. During that meeting, Lieutenant Paul Auerbach freely spoke his mind about the dialogue the LGBTQ+ Committee wanted to engage in. “This was an all cards on the table, speak your mind environment,” Lieutenant Auerbach recalls. “At the conclusion of the meeting, the sheriff not only heard us, but listened. We became empowered to be a part of the solution and the committee was officially created.” Sheriff Tony said he wholeheartedly supports the committee’s efforts. “Recognizing the LGBTQ+ community must extend beyond Pride Month,” Tony said. “BSO is made up of people from all walks of life, all races, colors, and creeds. It is our duty to be respectful and inclusive in our dealings with everyone we encounter, and that begins with recognizing and honoring the differences of the men and women who work for this agency.” Since then, the committee’s purpose has expanded both inside and outside of the BSO. For instance, the LGBTQ+ Committee has liaisons in divisions throughout the agency, and also provides a personal point of contact between the BSO and the LGBTQ+ community and assists, advises, and consults with BSO leadership and other deputies on issues involving the LGBTQ+ community. “Internally, having this community representation in these BSO departments serves as an ‘olive branch’ to the community and our external efforts serve to foster positive community interactions,” Auerbach said. The LGBTQ+ Committee also meets with business owners, community groups, and individuals from the LGBTQ+ community to discuss public safety matters and provides a direct line of communication to discuss community concerns regarding crimes directed against the LGBTQ+ community. There are numerous other accomplishments in pursuit of greater understanding and awareness. Notably, the LGBTQ+ Committee has provided a law enforcement liaison to one of the BSO’s contract cities, which helped that city receive its first perfect score on the Equality Index. The LGBTQ+ Committee also participated in the 2022 Gender and Sexualities Summit of the Broward County Public Schools Department of Equity and Diversity. At this summit, committee members engaged in an open discussion with high school students about LGBTQ+ community members working in public safety. Committee members have also served on panels to address the history between law enforcement and the LGBTQ+ community and provided security for an LGBTQ+ Summer Prom, facilitated by Julian’s Fountain of Youth Foundation. “We will continue to collaborate with community leaders, residents, and businesses to design and implement projects and programs to establish a closer, more effective dialogue between BSO and the LGBTQ+ community,” Sheriff Tony said. Lieutenant Paul Auerbach, BSO Carey Codd, Senior Public Information Officer, BSO Images Courtesy of the Broward County (Florida) Sheriff’s Office. To sign up for monthly updates or to access your subscriber preferences, please enter your email address in the Subscribe box.
## https://cops.usdoj.gov/html/dispatch/06-2022/Building_Trust_LGBTQ.html


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://cops.usdoj.gov/html/dispatch/06-2022/Building_Trust_LGBTQ.html)To provide feedback on the Community Policing Dispatch, e-mail the editorial board at CPDispatch@usdoj.gov. To obtain details on COPS Office programs, publications, and resources, contact the COPS Office Response Center at 800-421-6770 or AskCopsRC@usdoj.gov U.S. Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services Do you know how many people living in your jurisdiction are members of the LGBTQ community? Do you see them? Do you know them? People who identify as a sexual orientation or gender identity minority live and work in every town, big or small, in the United States. They may be working in your organization and not be “out” or visible to you and your colleagues. Why are these hidden identities not visible, you ask? Well, still today, in many parts of the United States, LGBTQ people live in fear of violence, rejection, and ridicule by, among other sources, law enforcement. The fear of law enforcement prevents trust, and today we can’t afford to ignore the importance of building trust with any part of our community. June is Pride Month and an ideal time to examine ways to build trust between a law enforcement agency and its local LGBTQ community. Remember, the reason Pride Month exists at all is largely because of law enforcement. Modern day Pride parades and festivals commemorate the riots with police and LGBTQ people at New York’s Stonewall Inn in June of 1969. While this riot was not the first violent clash between LGBTQ people and police, it is the most notorious. All of the riots with police and the LGBTQ community that happened in the 1960’s were a culmination of decades of violence and growing mistrust with police. The good news is that law enforcement has made greats strides to mend the decades of ill will and to build trust. As a profession, we still have a very long way to go, but there are some very effective ways a law enforcement agency can build trust and they are not complicated or expensive. It is easy to dismiss a community you cannot see or that is not vocal in favor of the “squeaky wheels.” But, responding only to the vocal minority is a reactive approach that won’t develop the level of trust law enforcement needs with the people it serves. We need to be proactive by reaching out to the silent and less visible members of our community, and there are some proven ways to do that effectively and without a great deal of cost. If you are committed to principles of community policing and the tenets of procedural justice, then it will be easy for you to realize how an LGBTQ Law Enforcement Liaison program can be a proactive way to build trust with the LGBTQ population. In fact, the model can be easily applied to any other sub-community in your jurisdiction. In 1962, the San Francisco Police Department became the first agency to appoint a representative of the department to the LGBTQ community. Sergeant Elliott Blackstone, a straight-identified cisgender man, became the department’s first representative to what was already a large and growing community. Since that time, departments large and small across the United States have appointed individual officers to act as liaisons between the law enforcement agency and the LGBTQ population. These positions provide a communication conduit between the chief executive, the department at large, and the LGBTQ community. They put a human face with a name on the law enforcement agency, thereby increasing access to law enforcement. In 2021, we studied LGBTQ Liaison programs across the country and found that most programs function informally without any structure or written procedures. LGBTQ Liaison positions have several broad areas of responsibility in common, including: This may seem like a huge undertaking, but in most cases, the assignment is not considered a full-time one. In fact, most agencies can benefit from an LGBTQ Liaison as an ancillary assignment. The appointed officer does not need to be a member of the LGBTQ community to be successful. What is important for success is that the program be structured to be sustainable. It is also important that the appointed officer receive training on how to deliver LGBTQ awareness training, support hate crimes investigations, and how to function as an LGBTQ Community Liaison. If you are looking for a way to connect with your community during Pride month, consider creating an LGBTQ Liaison program for your agency. You will reap the rewards of improved trust for years to come and your community will thank you. Out To Protect is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization formed in 2009 with the mission of creating a greater awareness of the gay, lesbian, bisexual, and transgender professionals working in law enforcement and to support those pursuing a law enforcement career. We offer online training courses including LGBTQ Awareness for Law Enforcement, LGBTQ Awareness Training for Trainers, LGBTQ Law Enforcement Community Liaison Academy, and Hate Crimes Investigations. Many of these courses are available free of charge to members of law enforcement. Images Courtesy of Out To Protect. To sign up for monthly updates or to access your subscriber preferences, please enter your email address in the Subscribe box.
## https://cops.usdoj.gov/node/348


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://cops.usdoj.gov/node/348)WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Department of Justice’s Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS Office) announced today the creation of three new partnerships that will all contribute to the advancement of community policing and serve as vital resources for law enforcement agencies across the country. The new partnerships are with film production company Big Mouth Productions, and two non-profit training organizations – Center for Council (a project of Community Partners) and Out to Protect, Incorporated. “These new partnerships represent another strong example of the work of the COPS Office to help provide much-needed resources to law enforcement in a variety of critical areas,” said Robert Chapman, Acting Director of the COPS Office. “From using innovative tools to train officers in the dominant issues currently facing law enforcement, to emphasizing the importance of compassion in officer health and wellness, to supporting the establishment and enhancement of LGBTQ Liaison Units in state and local law enforcement, these unique partnerships demonstrate what can happen when the principles of community policing are utilized in training and technical assistance.” These new partnerships cover a wide range of topic areas and will assist law enforcement in a variety of ways: - Big Mouth Productions is an award-winning, independent documentary film production company that produced a 2018 documentary titled “Charm City.” The impact of the film was amplified when it was used as a training tool for the Baltimore Police Department, allowing law enforcement to better understand the challenges of the community, while also showing the difficulties of working in a department with enormous staffing and funding challenges. This successful training demonstrated the potential for using documentaries as training tools. Building on that experience, this partnership and its goal of curating of a slate of films and supporting materials for agency and community use will provide an opportunity to realize the role that film/documentaries can play in building trust between law enforcement and the communities they serve, with a focus on critical topics in law enforcement training. - Center for Council is a nonprofit organization that offers award-winning programs that teach self-awareness and reinforce skills to manage stress, cultivate positive communication, and strengthen community relations. Their POWER (Peace Officer Wellness, Empathy, and Resilience) Training Program focuses on stress management and self-care techniques for law enforcement officers, building skills to communicate with more compassion, and effectively de-escalate conflict. Officers learn ways to skillfully integrate practices into their day-to-day work to enhance self-awareness and well-being and build more positive relationships within their agencies and with the communities they serve. The COPS Office and Center for Council will work together to increase law enforcement awareness of the intersectionality of wellness, procedural justice, and community building. - Out to Protect, Incorporated (OTP) provides training and other resources that create greater awareness of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer issues in law enforcement. The organization maintains a national network of LGBTQ Liaison Officers, offers no-cost, online LGBTQ and hate crimes training for officers, and provides scholarships to law enforcement recruits who are “out” as gay, lesbian, bisexual, or transgender, or who are straight allies. Under the partnership, COPS and Out to Protect will work collaboratively to support the strengthening of LGBTQ Liaison Units in state and local law enforcement agencies; further the expertise of Liaison Officers; and create greater awareness throughout the law enforcement community about the contributions that Liaison Units can make to improving public safety and reducing victimization. The COPS Office is the federal component of the Department of Justice responsible for advancing community policing nationwide. The only Department of Justice agency with policing in its name, the COPS Office was established in 1994 and has been the cornerstone of the nation’s crime fighting strategy with grants, a variety of knowledge resource products, and training and technical assistance. Through the years, the COPS Office has become the go-to organization for law enforcement agencies across the country and continues to listen to the field and provide the resources that are needed to reduce crime and build trust between law enforcement and the communities served. The COPS Office has invested more than $14 billion to advance community policing, including grants awarded to more than 13,000 state, local and tribal law enforcement agencies to fund the hiring and redeployment of more than 135,000 officers. ###
## https://cops.usdoj.gov/pressrelease/cops-office-announces-three-new-partnerships-advance-community-policing


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://cops.usdoj.gov/pressrelease/cops-office-announces-three-new-partnerships-advance-community-policing)WASHINGTON, D.C. – The Department of Justice’s Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS Office) announced today the creation of three new partnerships that will all contribute to the advancement of community policing and serve as vital resources for law enforcement agencies across the country. The new partnerships are with film production company Big Mouth Productions, and two non-profit training organizations – Center for Council (a project of Community Partners) and Out to Protect, Incorporated. “These new partnerships represent another strong example of the work of the COPS Office to help provide much-needed resources to law enforcement in a variety of critical areas,” said Robert Chapman, Acting Director of the COPS Office. “From using innovative tools to train officers in the dominant issues currently facing law enforcement, to emphasizing the importance of compassion in officer health and wellness, to supporting the establishment and enhancement of LGBTQ Liaison Units in state and local law enforcement, these unique partnerships demonstrate what can happen when the principles of community policing are utilized in training and technical assistance.” These new partnerships cover a wide range of topic areas and will assist law enforcement in a variety of ways: Big Mouth Productions is an award-winning, independent documentary film production company that produced a 2018 documentary titled “Charm City.” The impact of the film was amplified when it was used as a training tool for the Baltimore Police Department, allowing law enforcement to better understand the challenges of the community, while also showing the difficulties of working in a department with enormous staffing and funding challenges. This successful training demonstrated the potential for using documentaries as training tools. Building on that experience, this partnership and its goal of curating of a slate of films and supporting materials for agency and community use will provide an opportunity to realize the role that film/documentaries can play in building trust between law enforcement and the communities they serve, with a focus on critical topics in law enforcement training. - Center for Council is a nonprofit organization that offers award-winning programs that teach self-awareness and reinforce skills to manage stress, cultivate positive communication, and strengthen community relations. Their POWER (Peace Officer Wellness, Empathy, and Resilience) Training Program focuses on stress management and self-care techniques for law enforcement officers, building skills to communicate with more compassion, and effectively de-escalate conflict. Officers learn ways to skillfully integrate practices into their day-to-day work to enhance self-awareness and well-being and build more positive relationships within their agencies and with the communities they serve. The COPS Office and Center for Council will work together to increase law enforcement awareness of the intersectionality of wellness, procedural justice, and community building. - Out to Protect, Incorporated (OTP) provides training and other resources that create greater awareness of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer issues in law enforcement. The organization maintains a national network of LGBTQ Liaison Officers, offers no-cost, online LGBTQ and hate crimes training for officers, and provides scholarships to law enforcement recruits who are “out” as gay, lesbian, bisexual, or transgender, or who are straight allies. Under the partnership, COPS and Out to Protect will work collaboratively to support the strengthening of LGBTQ Liaison Units in state and local law enforcement agencies; further the expertise of Liaison Officers; and create greater awareness throughout the law enforcement community about the contributions that Liaison Units can make to improving public safety and reducing victimization. - The COPS Office is the federal component of the Department of Justice responsible for advancing community policing nationwide. The only Department of Justice agency with policing in its name, the COPS Office was established in 1994 and has been the cornerstone of the nation’s crime fighting strategy with grants, a variety of knowledge resource products, and training and technical assistance. Through the years, the COPS Office has become the go-to organization for law enforcement agencies across the country and continues to listen to the field and provide the resources that are needed to reduce crime and build trust between law enforcement and the communities served. The COPS Office has invested more than $14 billion to advance community policing, including grants awarded to more than 13,000 state, local and tribal law enforcement agencies to fund the hiring and redeployment of more than 135,000 officers. ###
## https://cops.usdoj.gov/node/126


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://cops.usdoj.gov/node/126)WASHINGTON, D.C. - The Department of Justice, Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS Office) today announced the release of Gender, Sexuality, and 21st Century Policing: Protecting the Rights of the LGBTQ+ Community. The report is a summary of the July 2016 forum hosted in partnership with Strategic Applications International (SAI) in which law enforcement leaders and members of LGBTQ+ advocacy groups came together to discuss the relationship between law enforcement and the LGBTQ+ community. The forum was centered around recommendations from the Final Report of the President’s Task Force on 21st Century Policing, specifically those related to search and seizure procedures for members of the LGBTQ+ and transgender populations and the adoption of policies prohibiting profiling and discrimination. Participants offered suggestions to update current and develop new policies related to recruitment, hiring, training, communications, and outreach. “I commend the participants of the Gender, Sexuality, and 21st Century Policing forum for their willingness to provide insight into the sometimes challenging relationships between members of the LGBTQ+ community and law enforcement,” said COPS Office Director Ronald Davis. “It is the responsibility of all those sworn to serve and protect, to do just that – serve and protect all of the nation’s populations. This report offers thoughtful recommendations to help bridge the gap and improve relationships and trust between these two groups.” The report offers recommendations related to data collection and analysis; policy development and implementation; policy implementation audits and evaluation; community access and partnerships; recruitment and internal support for LGBTQ+ officers; and officer education and training. Gender, Sexuality, and 21st Century Policing: Protecting the Rights of the LGBTQ+ Community is available here: http://ric-zai-inc.com/ric.php?page=detail&id=COPS-W0837. The COPS Office, headed by Director Ronald Davis, is a federal agency responsible for advancing community policing nationwide. Since 1995, the COPS Office has invested more than $14 billion to advance community policing, including grants awarded to more than 13,000 state, local and tribal law enforcement agencies to fund the hiring and redeployment of approximately 129,000 officers and provide a variety of knowledge resource products including publications, training and technical assistance. For additional information about the COPS Office, please visit www.cops.usdoj.gov.
## https://cops.usdoj.gov/html/dispatch/06-2021/promotion_from_within.html


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://cops.usdoj.gov/html/dispatch/06-2021/promotion_from_within.html)To provide feedback on the Community Policing Dispatch, e-mail the editorial board at CPDispatch@usdoj.gov. To obtain details on COPS Office programs, publications, and resources, contact the COPS Office Response Center at 800-421-6770 or AskCopsRC@usdoj.gov U.S. Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services New York has always been one of the epicenters of the LGBTQ community in America. The community battled for visibility and safety well before the Stonewall Riots in 1969 and has only grown in size and strength. With more than 50,000 employees (sworn and unsworn), the New York City Police Department (NYPD) has not only made efforts to engage the LGBTQ community in all five boroughs but also set up internal efforts to update language, remove barriers, and improve opportunities for employees who identify as LGBTQ. Tanya Meisenholder, the Deputy Commissioner for Equity and Inclusion at NYPD, graciously shared her experiences of promoting equity and inclusion not only in the community but in the workplace as well. “Externally,” she says, “the NYPD has an LGBTQ Outreach Unit, an LGBTQ liaison assigned to the Chief of Department’s Office, and an LGBTQ Advisory Panel, all of which work directly with members of the community. Internally, there is open communication with the aforementioned units, as well as the Gay Officers Action League, or GOAL, and other employees facilitated by the Office of Equity and Inclusion. How we treat our employees is important because we know that how we treat our employees has an impact on how they treat the communities they serve.” The LGBTQ Outreach Unit participates in outreach efforts in all five boroughs. They participate in youth outreach with local partners as well as efforts to engage elderly members of the LGBTQ community. LGBTQ youth are more likely to be homeless, more likely to be trafficked, and more likely to have had police contact than their straight cisgender peers and are a special focus of departments nationwide because of the heightened risks they face. “The Outreach Unit also helps get LGBTQIA+ youth involved in more general youth programs, such as Law Enforcement Explorers, the Police Cadet Corps, and the Summer Youth Police Academy and Employment programs,” says Deputy Commissioner Meisenholder. The internal efforts to promote LGBTQ inclusion and integration may be less visible to the public than the more outward reaching efforts. Work is overseen by Deputy Commissioner Meisenholder at the Office for Equity and Inclusion (OEI), which was founded in 2018 to improve the experience of all employees, including those who identify as LGBTQ whether they are out or not. Meisenholder shared the following effort: “In 2019, we distributed a confidential and voluntary employee survey to explore LGBTQIA+ within the NYPD. This internal outreach led to some real results: an inclusive language guide to illustrate the importance of communicating with coworkers and the public respectfully, extensive training about the LGBTQIA+ community for all of our employees, and improvement in policies and voluntary data collection related to gender identity.” The office has also worked with other components of city governments on trainings and gender-inclusive facilities such as restrooms, locker rooms, and employee lounges. An LGBTQ Liaison serves in the Chief of Department’s Office to ensure that LGBTQ-inclusive policies are implemented department-wide. According to Meisenholder, the liaison was instrumental in “the creation of a Gender Identity and Expression booklet and a bias-free language guide. We also developed policies to support transgender and nonconforming employees. All this work, through multiple avenues, has created a lot of positive relationships over the years. This helps bridge the gap between the police department, the LGBTQIA+ community, and LGBTQIA+ employees.” In addition to internal efforts, the department works with partners at GOAL (a registered 501(c)(3) organization founded in 1982) on trainings as early as the police academy. Deputy Commissioner Meisenholder explains that “GOAL, in partnership with the Training Bureau, provides a LGBTQIA+ workshop for new recruits, promotional classes, School Safety, Traffic Enforcement, and other employees. This training has been provided for over 20 years and the workshop is CALEA [Commission on Accreditation for Law Enforcement Agencies] accredited.” GOAL provides a space outside the workplace but inside the law enforcement community for officers to process their experiences and translate them into action items to create a bridge between law enforcement generally and the LGBTQ community. All these efforts are aimed at creating a department that promotes the same treatment internally that it seeks to provide externally. A necessary component of this is upholding the LGBTQ community while also acknowledging that the members of that community have many identities, including that of New Yorkers. “Embracing this intersectionality,” reflects Deputy Commissioner Meisenholder, “really gives the NYPD strength and helps us be a more inclusive department. While this has helped build positive relationships and we are grateful for the work that we have done, we know there is still more work to do and look forward to building and improving relationships.” Sarah K. Estill Sr. Program Analyst COPS Office All photos courtesy of the NYPD. To sign up for monthly updates or to access your subscriber preferences, please enter your email address in the Subscribe box.
## https://cops.usdoj.gov/html/dispatch/06-2021/recruiting_in_the_lgbtq.html


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://cops.usdoj.gov/html/dispatch/06-2021/recruiting_in_the_lgbtq.html)To provide feedback on the Community Policing Dispatch, e-mail the editorial board at CPDispatch@usdoj.gov. To obtain details on COPS Office programs, publications, and resources, contact the COPS Office Response Center at 800-421-6770 or AskCopsRC@usdoj.gov U.S. Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services As law enforcement agencies across the nation deal with recruitment challenges, many are reaching out to previously underrepresented communities. One that is getting more attention is the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer or Questioning (LGBTQ) community. In addition to finding good candidates among its members, agencies are realizing other benefits—such as improved relationships with previously underserved members of this community and, in many cases, a better work environment in which LGBTQ people feel free to express themselves. But unlike racial or religious minorities, who can often be more easily identified, LGBTQ people may be difficult to reach. And convincing them that they would be welcome and even thrive in a profession that has disrespected them in the past takes some doing. The need to adopt new recruitment methods to attract LGBTQ individuals was a topic discussed at length in a 2016 law enforcement forum on recruitment in the 21st century hosted by the COPS Office and Strategic Applications International (SAI). Forum member William Shepard of the New York City Police Department (NYPD), who is also a member of the Gay Officers Action League New York (GOAL NY), pointed out that simply “changing photos, putting gender on the paperwork, and creating forums for discussion has created a good critical mass of transgender people joining the police department.” But forum members agreed that more changes in policies and practices are needed, not only to recruit from the LGBTQ community, but also to promote a departmental culture in which people of all sexual orientations and identities can thrive. To achieve this, they suggested additional actions: Since the forum met, these and similar practices have been successfully adopted by several law enforcement agencies. Among them is the San Jose (California) Police Department (SJPD). In 2016, then Chief Eddie Garcia and his staff developed a recruitment campaign that included posters and videos featuring same-sex partners with a message designed to resonate with lesbian and gay individuals. In an August 25, 2017 article published by Coming Out from Behind the Badge, Chief Garcia commented, “It’s one thing to put some generic ‘all minority applicants are encouraged to apply’ message on a recruitment flier and quite another to design one that messages a specific minority group with a direct call to apply. “This is how departments should be designing recruitment campaigns for all groups underrepresented in the rank and file,” he added. “Potential applicants need to see themselves in the images used, and the text should call to them specifically. If you want lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender applicants, then say it.” Said James Gonzales, LGBTQ+ Liaison Officer for SJPD, “It was the first time that same-sex couples were shown in a positive way in any law enforcement communications—and as police families, too. Our campaign showed uniformed lesbian, gay, and heterosexual couples, all visibly affectionate with each other in their home settings.” Said Officer Gonzales, “It not only sent the message that we value all families to the public, but to the people in our department, as well. At that time, I was the only sworn person who was out. Since then, more are serving openly. We knew we had work to do, that our profession as a whole doesn’t allow people to be as comfortable as they should be. That has changed at SJPD. “The response from the San Jose community was extremely positive,” he adds. “People have walked up to us to say how blown away they were that a police department would embrace the LGBTQ community in such a forward way.” To support the agency’s recruiting efforts, Chief Garcia also created the LGBTQ+ Liaison position, which Officer Gonzales filled. In addition to serving as a point of contact for recruitment, his unit helps in efforts to build trust among people of different sexual orientations in the department, as well as in the San Jose community.Officer Gonzalez’s duties include working with the LGBTQ community on a variety of issues, coordinating multi–governmental agency responses to the needs of the community, and facilitating SJPD participation in LGBTQ related events. The SJPD also has an LGBTQ advisory board composed of LGBTQ community members and SJPD employees as well as representatives from other government agencies. The board meets with SJPD’s chief to discuss police policies and other concerns, enabling ongoing communication and helping to foster an inclusive workplace. Adding new recruitment procedures and changing the departmental culture may take time, but the benefits can greatly outweigh the effort. LGBTQ people can add value to a law enforcement workforce in many ways, perhaps most importantly by helping to create a culture of tolerance, open-mindedness, and respect for differences. In a July 18, 2018 article in the Advocate, Brian E. Downey, current president of GOAL NY, pointed out that interacting with LGBTQ cops helps straight officers interact with LGBTQ civilians, too. “We educate one another,” he explains. “On religion, on social status, on class, on where people come from, on where people have been, various unique life experiences. It’s a win-win.” Faye C. Elkins Sr. Technical Writer COPS Office To sign up for monthly updates or to access your subscriber preferences, please enter your email address in the Subscribe box.
## https://cops.usdoj.gov/html/dispatch/06-2022/Support_LGBTQ_Resources.html


> [[Archive]](https://web.archive.org/web/20240000000000*/https://cops.usdoj.gov/html/dispatch/06-2022/Support_LGBTQ_Resources.html)To provide feedback on the Community Policing Dispatch, e-mail the editorial board at CPDispatch@usdoj.gov. To obtain details on COPS Office programs, publications, and resources, contact the COPS Office Response Center at 800-421-6770 or AskCopsRC@usdoj.gov U.S. Department of Justice Office of Community Oriented Policing Services For more than 50 years, June has been celebrated worldwide as Pride Month, with parades, picnics, parties, workshops, concerts, and other events held to honor the lives and contributions of the LGBTQ community. These events are good opportunities for state, local, tribal, and territorial (SLTT) law enforcement agencies to reach out and improve trust with a population that has been historically marginalized—and continues to be. Many jurisdictions have reported an increase in hate crimes during the last five years, an increase compounded by many LGBTQ individuals’ reluctance to report crimes for fear of facing discrimination from law enforcement. However, federal law enforcement partners have a variety of resources to support LGBTQ individuals, their families, and communities. The Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI) launched an updated initiative in 2021 to encourage reporting of hate crimes at 800-CALL-FBI or via the anonymous e-Tip Form. The FBI, and its 56 divisions located around the country, also provides support and resources, including victim services, for SLTT law enforcement investigating hate crimes. The Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS Office) has worked with the FBI, other Department of Justice components, and other federal agencies to host a series of meetings and listening sessions focused on LGBTQ topics. One outcome of these meetings was a publication with 45 recommendations based on the experiences of people in small and large communities. The report, Memorializing Transgender Day of Remembrance: A Report from the Interagency Working Group on Safety, Opportunity, and Inclusion for Transgender and Gender Diverse Individuals, includes basics such as treating every person with respect and investigating reported hate crimes. Another outcome of this interagency collaboration is the implementation of the Violence Against Women Act Reauthorization Act of 2022, which includes funding for survivor services and supports, including to underserved and marginalized communities, as well as training and funding to support evidence-based practices in responding to gender-based violence, promote the use of trauma-informed, victim-centered training, and improve homicide reduction initiatives. The Office on Violence Against Women (OVW) administers more than $500 million a year in funding to law enforcement agencies and local support services. OVW has also just released an updated guide for law enforcement on responding to sexual assault and domestic violence without bias. Among Generation Z—people born in 1997 or later—more than one person in five identifies as LGBTQ, so resources for engaging this community are particularly useful in dealing with young people. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) have a variety of factsheets and LGBTQ resources, including Advocates for Youth and the APA Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity overview. Youth.gov is a central collection of resources created by federal agencies and community partners to help communities work effectively with children, teens, and young adults; it includes a Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity page and a Bullying Prevention section which includes A Guide for Understanding, Supporting, and Affirming LGBTQI2-S Children, Youth, and Families. Domestic violence and homelessness are critical issues that impact LGBTQ individuals and their dependents, and resources for SLTT to help vulnerable community members with these issues are available at the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services’ Family and Youth Services Bureau Domestic Violence Services Network webpage. Here, law enforcement can find links to emergency housing, legal advocates, and counseling so they can connect crime victims and those engaged in nuisance crimes to community supports. Frontline officers and deputies play a critical role in the safety of the whole community, including LGBTQ+ individuals. Resources are available to help prevent and investigate sexual and physical assaults, harassment, and online cybercrimes, and to collaborate with local organizations to provide victim services. Building trust with community members will improve safety for everyone. The COPS Office also has publications and Community Policing Topic webpages to support SLTT in responding effectively to crimes affecting the LGBTQ community: To sign up for monthly updates or to access your subscriber preferences, please enter your email address in the Subscribe box.